NATIONAL NEWS IN BRIEF  c.2002 New York Times News Service 	MIDWEST 	ILLINOIS: A BILL TO SEIZE DRUNKEN DRIVERS' CARS 	The Legislature has passed and sent to the governor a bill to allow the authorities to seize the vehicles of drivers who have lost their licenses because of drunken driving or reckless homicide. The bill is intended to reduce the number of drivers who continue to drive after losing their licenses. 	SOUTH 	ALABAMA: ACTING TO AVERT COURT CRISIS 	Chief Justice Roy Moore of the state Supreme Court moved to avert a judicial crisis by accepting an emergency $500,000 allocation from Gov. Don Siegelman that will allow the resumption of jury trials halted by a budget dispute. Last month, Moore announced that he was suspending jury trials in all civil cases and most criminal cases because the state's court system needed an extra $2.7 million this year. 	NEW ENGLAND 	MAINE: 34-YEAR-OLD WEEKLY CLOSES 	The edition last Thursday of The Maine Times, a weekly devoted to state issues, was its last. The publisher, Christopher Hutchins, an executive from Bangor who bought the cash-strapped paper in 1999, told employees on Monday that it was closing. In a statement, Hutchins said that he had ``spared no expense to keep it afloat,'' but that the 34-year-old paper with a circulation of 3,600 could not survive on its low advertising revenues and subscription rates. 	WASHINGTON 	ASHCROFT'S NEW PUSH ON INTERNET PORNOGRAPHY 	Attacking a recent Supreme Court decision as ``a dangerous window of opportunity for child abusers,'' Attorney General John Ashcroft pushed for new legislation to ban computer-simulated pornography. The measure, introduced on Monday in the House, has newly detailed references to computers and the Internet and is meant to be more precise than the version that ran afoul of the justices. 	HOUSE DISMISSES 11 PAGES OVER MARIJUANA 	Eleven pages in the House of Representatives have been discharged for smoking marijuana, a spokesman for Rep. Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House minority leader, said. None were sponsored by Democratic lawmakers, the spokesman added. The dismissals were first reported on the Web site of Roll Call newspaper. The pages, high school juniors, perform various administrative duties, including carrying messages to members and preparing the House or Senate chambers for sessions. 
