Adrian Piper arrived at Wellesley College in 1990 with the buzz of a Hollywood It Girl. The New York Times called her ``the artist of the fall season in New York'' for her conceptual art on racism. Her work in Kantian ethics had inspired Wellesley to make her the first African-American woman to become a tenured full professor of philosophy in the United States. The hire also fluffed Wellesley's feathers. The school had been struggling to improve the diversity of its faculty. With Piper, Wellesley not only gained a person of color, it got a star. ``She was an accomplished artist and philosopher, and it was extremely lucky for Wellesley to get her _ that was definitely the promise of the advertisement,'' says T. James Kodera, a professor of religion at Wellesley. Owen Flanagan, former chair of Wellesley's philosophy department who now teaches at Duke University, called her ``one of the top philosophers in her generation.'' But somehow, soon after arriving on campus, the It Girl of academe lost her way. The scholarly book Piper was chapters away from completing when she arrived at Wellesley? Still unfinished after nearly two decades of work. The art career? She created no new pieces between 1992 and 2000. Although she is a respected teacher, her flashiest contribution to college life may have been her monograph, ``Racism at Wellesley: Causes and Containment,'' a widely read indictment of race relations at the school that frayed her relationship with college administrators, who allege, in pending litigation, that she is ``malingering'' in her academic duties. ``I haven't done more than an article a year, max, for far too long,'' she notes mournfully of her publication record. Piper blames her flagging fortunes on Wellesley. The school, she says, failed to help her juggle demanding careers in philosophy and art. Her hiring brought valuable publicity to the college, she says, but Wellesley refused her the sort of reduced course load and scheduling latitude universities often grant academic stars. The stress, she asserts, forced her to take three medical leaves that have, together, kept her out of the classroom for three years. In the fascinating, chatty personal chronology she has posted on her Web site (www.adrianpiper.com) she describes herself collapsing from physical exhaustion at the end of fall and spring semesters, year after year. She writes about suffering from a rare spine condition that could only be improved by long sessions of yoga she no longer has the strength to continue.  A legacy of racism Her most recent medical leave began in 2000. That same year, Piper filed a lawsuit accusing the college of discrimination and breach of contract. The complaint, part of the trove uploaded onto her Web site, details a raft of claims, but boils down to this: Wellesley hired Adrian Piper but wouldn't let her be Adrian Piper. The school hit back hard. In a motion to dismiss Piper's claim filed last year, Wellesley said Piper had ``exaggerated her medical condition, was malingering, and was attempting to renege on her teaching responsibilities.'' It stopped paying Piper's $98,000 salary last year; she's now on unpaid leave. On the advice of college attorneys, Wellesley's president, Diana Chapman Walsh and college dean Lee Cuba, declined interview requests. And what of the former It Girl? She now resides in the land of lost promise. The 53-year-old Harlem native reflected on her situation during an interview in the Cape Cod house she inherited from her parents. She is a small-boned, delicate-looking woman with close-cropped hair; her manila-colored skin is the product of a German, Madagascan, and Nigerian brew that allowed several relatives to pass for white. Her father, a lawyer, chose to fight in the Army during World War II as a white man. But he lived most of his life as black; like her mother, an administrative assistant, her father found his career opportunities limited by the bigotry of the 1950s and 1960s. Their experiences, and sorrows, seeped into young Adrian, and into her future art and thought. ``They tried so hard to protect me,'' Piper says of her parents, abruptly starting to cry. ``They had this belief, which in retrospect was so naive, that education was going to arm me and put me out of reach of the racism that had destroyed their lives.'' It was Piper's grandmother who planted the artistic seed, teaching her how to draw at age 3. By the early 1970s, she was a struggling artist working for artist Sol Lewitt and creating performance art by dancing at New York City bus stops. Her introduction to philosophy occurred at age 20, when she was struggling to explain the thinking that lay behind some her new work and a friend suggested she read Immanuel Kant's ``Critique of Pure Reason.'' ``I read it, and the amazing thing is I thought I understood it,'' Piper says, the joy of discovery still infusing her voice. ``He said exactly what I really felt but could not find the vocabulary for. So after art school . . . I understood I needed to do philosophy.'' She would graduate (``Summa, Phi Beta Kappa etc.,'' as her Web site chronology casually puts it) from the City University of New York, then head to Harvard for her master's degree and her doctorate. She launched her teaching career in 1979 as an instructor and, later, assistant professor at the University of Michigan. A year later, Piper took nine months off for an illness akin to chronic fatigue syndrome. It was the first indication of the kind of medical troubles that would hound her at Wellesley. Although Michigan provided a fertile period for Piper's art and scholarship, it does not evoke many happy memories for her. As Piper recalls it, her problems there started long before her illness, the result of not revealing her racial identity while interviewing for the job. ``They didn't realize I was black,'' Piper says, providing an abbreviated version of her 1991 essay, ``Passing for White, Passing for Black.'' ``When they found out, things became really horrible. . . . They really pounded me about my views.'' By her account, that pressure and scrutiny helped fuel her ascent in her field. ``My publication record was excellent. My teaching record was outstanding. I'd given talks all over the place.'' Her art career was also flourishing _ a Guggenheim fellowship, national and international gallery tours. A hilarious performance art video of her teaching whites how to dance to funk began showing at the Whitney Museum of American Art and the Museum of Modern Art in New York and the Hirshhorn Museum at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C. ``Let's face it,'' says Steve Henry, director of the Paula Cooper Gallery, which has represented Piper since the late 1960s, ``she was for a long time one of the few African-American artists with any kind of art world visibility.''  Philosophical differences With her art career taking off, her academic career took a stumble. In 1985, Michigan decided not to give Piper tenure, stunning her peers. One colleague, she recalls, wondered, ``How could this have happened?'' The answer, she and her colleague believed, was that the university's philosophy department simply wasn't ready to provide a tenured home to a black woman. ``And they still aren't,'' Piper adds, derisively. Stephen Darwall, who is now chairman of the philosophy department at Michigan and was a professor when she taught there, declined to comment. Whatever led to the Michigan decision, Piper does have a point about the field of philosophy being, historically, unwelcoming to people of color. The field currently has 5,000 tenured professors, according to the American Philosophical Association. Only 70 black men and three African-American women belong to the club, says Piper. None of them is at Michigan. ``This is not a discipline that is terribly friendly to people who have had a record of being underrepresented,'' says Michele Moody-Adams, a tenured black philosophy professor at Cornell University who received her undergraduate degree from Wellesley. After leaving Ann Arbor, Piper accepted a tenured associate professor position at Georgetown University, but she found Washington too expensive. She took a similar job at the University of California, San Diego _ too far away from her family and the New York City art world. Then Wellesley came calling, charmed by the chance to hire the sort of high-profile talent that major universities often scoop up. ``It will be perceived,'' a faculty committee noted, ``as an incredible and completely unexpected coup if we make this appointment.'' And it was. Her academic performance won praise from students. ``A lot of people really want to study with her before they leave,'' says Sabrina Hom, a Wellesley senior majoring in philosophy who took two classes with Piper. ``She has a very good reputation in the department.'' Problems quickly outran the promise. During Piper's first academic year, she says, the job began taking its physical toll. She twice ``got so tired that I literally could not get out of bed,'' before she took a medical leave in the spring of 1991. The exhaustion was caused, she claims, by the pressure of doing interviews and lectures about her art while teaching two philosophy courses a term at Wellesley. At the time, Piper's first art retrospective, ``Adrian Piper: Reflections 1967-1987,'' was traveling the country. At Wellesley, Piper asked to teach only one course per term but her request was rebuffed by the philosophy department and the dean of the college. So were her efforts from 1990 to 1997 to get annual faculty awards to pay for clerical and supply expenses incurred by her art career. The school's resistance caused Piper to conclude that the college never intended to adapt to her unusual combination of talents. ``Neither Wellesley's philosophy department nor its administration would even have considered hiring someone of my professional profile had I not been a black woman,'' she wrote in a long, rambling letter to Walsh, the Wellesley president. ``A white male with a comparable record of professional activity would have been immediately rejected as a `bad fit.' ''  Sick and tired As Piper and the college remained locked in battle over the matter, her productivity plummeted. ``To actually bring the book project to completion would have taken a continuity of time that I didn't have,'' Piper says. ``I spent at least half of my summer vacation each year just recovering from the previous physical collapse.'' Piper did find time to write ``Racism at Wellesley,'' a 1998 report that was widely distributed at the college despite the ``confidential'' stamp on its cover. The 36-page study, which grew out of Piper's participation on the college's Minority Recruitment, Hiring, and Retention Committee, took the temperature of Wellesley's racial climate for minority faculty and concluded that there was an atmosphere of ``condescension and disrespect.'' Publication of the study further soured her standing with college administrators. In the letter to Walsh, which Piper has posted on her Web site, Piper complains that Walsh characterized the report as filled with ``cheap shots, flat-out false statements, and unsubstantiated rumors.'' Walsh was unavailable to offer her own views of the matter. The report did have admirers, however. Kodera, the Wellesley religion professor, commended Piper ``for having had the courage to write `Racism at Wellesley.' I know she has received a number of rather unprofessional, sometimes ugly rebuttals at the intellectual level as well as at the personal level that may or may not have contributed to her eroding health.'' Piper hasn't taught since September 2000, when she was hospitalized for a month for appendicitis that developed into peritonitis. ``I almost died,'' she murmurs. She complains of low energy and muscle stiffness that hinder her return to work _ she's seeing an acupuncturist for the problem. But she's spry enough to eagerly demonstrate her balancing skills to a Globe photographer by jumping on a Bongo board, a one-wheeled toy popular in the 1950s. And absence from Wellesley has bred productivity. Three weeks after leaving the hospital in 2000, she began toiling on ``The Color Wheel'' series, which was exhibited later that year at the Paula Cooper Gallery in New York _ an exhibit timed to coincide with a career retrospective of her work at New York's New Museum of Contemporary Art. Another collection of older work began touring at the Andy Warhol Museum in Pittsburgh. Meanwhile, she's busy writing her two-volume philosophy book, ``Rationality and the Structure of Self,'' and even emerged from her Cape Cod home in February to discuss the project at Boston University's Institute on Race and Social Division. Last year Cuba, Wellesley's dean, sent Piper a letter saying her paid medical leave would end March 15, 2001, ``six months from the beginning of your full medical leave.'' When asked why this cut-off date was chosen, the school's public information director responded via e-mail, ``the college addresses a faculty member's request for a leave of absence for medical reasons on a case-by-case basis.'' The termination forced Piper to request unpaid leave, which spiked her monthly health insurance premiums from $79 to $395. ``This,'' says Piper, ``is what I call the Bleak House strategy of dragging it out until the point, they hope, when I no longer have the energy, the spine, or the financial resources to continue this case. And that's not going to happen.'' Indeed, the woman who vowed not to return to Wellesley until she was ``100 percent'' healthy talks about teaching at the school in the fall. She says her savings are close to depletion. But why not take her talents to a happier home? Why not just walk away and hope to regain her health? Her steely reply: ``I am very well aware that anyone in academia who devotes their precious time and energy to fighting all the discrimination they personally encounter is not going to have much time or energy for anything else. ``But my experience at Wellesley,'' she continues, ``has been completely different from what I experienced at the five institutions at which I previously taught. . . . By thwarting my work and damaging my health, Wellesley has left me nowhere to `just walk' to.'' 
