FOR THURSDAY AMs 	All stories will be coded ``f'' unless otherwise noted. 	For information on stories, or for reruns, please call: 888-346-9867 or 212-556-1927. For information on NYT photos and graphics, please call 888-603-1036 or 212-556-4204. 	Business Day Front Page of The New York Times, Thursday, May 2. 	(Lede story) 	CONGRESS-DOLLAR (Washington) _ After saying his goal was to avoid upsetting the financial markets, Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill did just that Wednesday by sparring with members of a congressional committee about the nation's financial condition and leaving some investors with doubts about his willingness to defend the weakening dollar. By Richard W. Stevenson. 	With graphic 	(Scheduled to move by 8:30 p.m. ET.) 	(Top display) 	SUN-RETIRE (San Francisco) _ Sun Microsystems says that Ed Zander, 55, its president and chief operating officer, will retire, the latest in a series of executive changes at the company. Scott McNealy, the chief executive, will take over Zander's duties. By Chris Gaither. 	With photo NYT 32 	(Story has moved.) 	(Center) 	AIG-APPOINT (Undated) _ American International Group sets in place a potential succession plan, naming Martin Sullivan and Edmund Tse co-chief operating officers and forming an office of the chairman with seven executives. By Joseph B. Treaster. 	(Scheduled to move by 9 p.m. ET.) 	(Bottom display) 	EUROPE-U.S.-STEEL (Undated) _ Robert B. Zoellick, the U.S. trade representative, and Pascal Lamy, the trade commissioner for the European Union, recorded some impressive successes in their first year as counterparts. Yet the dispute over steel tariffs has turned these old friends into public adversaries in advance of their meetings this week in Washington. Though the two remain at odds over some fundamental issues, outsiders say it appears they may be engaged in shadow boxing as each plays to domestic constituencies. An Economic Analysis by Daniel Altman. 	(The story has moved.) 	(Bottom right) 	STOCKS-MARKETPLACE New York) _ Further developments in how Wall Street rates stocks. By Patrick McGeehan. 	(Scheduled to move by 9 p.m. ET.) 	Here are tonight's columns and regular features: 	MEXICO-ECONSCENE (Undated) _ The Bush administration is casting about for new ideas on how to use $5 billion of aid a year for poor countries to achieve accountability and results in economic development. It would do well to look south, to the Progresa program in Mexico, for a successful model that has reduced child labor, increased educational levels, and improved health and nutrition for the poor. Alan B. Krueger 	(The column has moved.) 	WORLD-BIZ-BRIEFS (Undated) _ World business news in brief. 	(The briefs have moved.) 	TECH-BRIEFS (Undated) _ Technology news in brief. 	(Scheduled to move by 9 p.m. ET.) 	BIZGLANCE (Undated) _ Digest of the day's financial stories. 	(Scheduled to move by 9 p.m. ET.) 	The New York Times is running a wire story on the stock and bond markets. 	(Editors: All clients receive all budgets, but only full-service clients receive all stories. Please check your level of service to determine which stories you will receive.) 
