It was tough for anyone else in the Chick-fil-A Charity Championship field to top Karrie Webb's Tuesday practice round. She played it at Augusta National instead of Eagle's Landing and described the experience as ``very cool.'' ``I took a couple of mulligans,'' said Webb, who played from the shorter tees. ``I probably shot a couple over (par).'' Webb played with Augusta National member Nick Evans, Peter Malik of the International Management Group and LPGA Tour friend Kelly Robbins. Webb, who grew up in Australia watching the Masters on TV early in the morning, said it was fun ``to go there and see all the tricks and undulations of the course. . . . I played the back nine through Amen Corner and got goose bumps.'' Webb defends privacy A recently released book written by Australian Charles Happell says Webb has maintained a relationship for four years with Robbins, after a breakup with her onetime caddie and fiance Todd Haller. ``Obviously, it's an unauthorized biography,'' Webb said Wednesday. Asked about the book's accuracy, Webb said, ``I tried several years ago to keep my private life private and share it only with family and friends, and that's still where I stand on that.'' Tryon recovering Months ago if Ty Tryon was going to leave high school, people would have presumed it to have been for a full-time pro golf schedule. Instead, Tryon has left Dr. Phillips High School in Orlando because of mononucleosis, which stemmed from a strep throat he contracted while at PGA Tour Qualifying School last November. There's no certainty as to when Tryon, who turns 18 June 2 and will eligible to be a full-time PGA Tour member, will play again. The youngest player to earn a PGA Tour card, Tryon has used four of his seven sponsor exemptions for 2002. He withdrew from Atlanta's BellSouth Classic for what now turns out to have been tonsillitis. Et cetera Tom Lehman, one of the game's strong traditionalists, has adopted the long putter, frustrated by the 69 putts he required in two rounds at the Masters. ``It had gotten to the point,'' said Lehman, ``where if I had a 30-footer, I was just hoping to two-putt.'' He shot a closing 65 at Hilton Head two weeks ago with 22 putts. . . . The British Open purse has been raised to $5.3 million _ a jump of 17.5 percent _ with the winner's share hiked to $980,000. The U.S. Open is raising its purse $500,000 to $5.5 million for the June 13-16 event at Bethpage State Park's Black Course in Farmingdale, N.Y. . . . The United States Golf Association accepted a record 8,468 entries for the U.S. Open. . . . Jim Thorpe became the second African-American to win a major championship on the Senior PGA Tour when he captured last week's Countrywide Tradition, beating John Jacobs in a playoff. Charlie Sifford won the 1973 PGA Seniors Championship. Glenn Sheeley writes for The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. E-mail: gsheeley(at)ajc.com Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
