If only this tender family film were half as interesting as the series. Project Greenlight was a contest for aspiring screenwriters held by actors Matt Damon and Ben Affleck, who shared an Oscar for writing ``Good Will Hunting.'' The winner got to make a movie from the screenplay, with Miramax financing and distributing it. The entire process was taped and shown on HBO over 11 weeks. It made for gripping television, first as a ``Survivor''-type contest as aspirants were whittled down, then as a documentary about filmmaking. Pete Jones, the winner, was an unproduced Chicago screenwriter. He'd written a touching semi-autobiographical story, but the series was filled with back-stabbing, conflict and one cliffhanger after another. Jones was prone to weeping and saying ``over my dead body'' when producers leaned on him to make changes. Along the way, he learned to compromise. But those compromises and mistakes he and his producer made caused the movie to seem like a disaster in the making. (Watching it, I wondered if an inexperienced line producer had been purposely assigned to make the documentary more exciting.) Happily, the movie isn't a disaster. It didn't turn out exactly as Jones envisioned, and it will prove too sweet for some tastes, but it is a good-looking and occasionally touching movie that rises several notches above the kind of after-school TV specials it resembles. The story is set in Chicago in 1976. Pete (Adi Stein) is a bright 8-year-old from a large Irish Catholic family. His mom (Bonnie Hunt) is very religious, and the kids all attend Catholic school. His father (Aidan Quinn) is a firefighter who drinks too much and is opposed to Pete's older brother Patrick (Eddie Kaye Thomas) going to college. He wants his son to get a job with the city, same as he did. After getting into trouble at school, Pete worries that he won't get into heaven. He decides to win God's favor by going on a mission to convert Jews. This brings his family into contact with a saintly rabbi (Kevin Pollak) and the rabbi's son, Danny (Mike Weinberg), who has cancer. Despite the opposition of some members of his congregation, the rabbi indulges Pete's efforts to convert Jews because he sees the boy means well, and he believes some good could come from the intercultural exchange. He also encourages Pete's friendship with Danny, which Pete's dad opposes. The film touches lightly on the xenophobia that would've been prevalent in Pete's ethnic Chicago neighborhood in the 1970s, but every slur and hurtful utterance Pete's dad makes is matched by an unlikely moment of sensitivity and common sense. It takes an hour for a conflict powerful enough to galvanize the story to develop. It involves Patrick's desire to go to college. The rabbi winds up in the middle of the family conflict. To get the characters to that point, however, Jones relies on one of those huge coincidences that only happens in movies. There also are several moments of awkwardness, most of them involving the young actors, that clearly are the result of budgetary pressures that didn't allow Jones to keep shooting until everyone got it right. Other than this, ``Stolen Summer'' is a polished little film that one can't help but root for, if only to keep Jones from crying.  ``The Project Green Light Movie: Stolen Summer'' Starring: Aidan Quinn, Bonnie Hunt, Kevin Pollak, Adi Stein, Mike Weinberg, Brian Dennehy Director-Screenwriter: Pete Jones Rated PG: for thematic elements and language Running time: 91 minutes Grade: C+ XXX END OF STORY 
