The Cat's Meow Directed by: Peter Bogdanovich Screenplay by: Steven Peros Starring: Kirsten Dunst, Cary Elwes, Edward Herrmann, Eddie Izzard, Joanna Lumley, Jennifer Tilly Embassy Cinema Running time: 112 minutes Rated: PG-13 (sexuality, violence, drug use) !!! So what did happen aboard William Randolph Hearst's yacht in 1924? Facts are sketchy. All we know is that one of the glittery guests, fading movie kingpin Thomas Ince, who boarded the business-and-pleasure cruise in apparent good health, was transferred on a stretcher to a motorboat, then brought to shore, and he died in his Beverly Hills home two days later. Only one of the passengers was questioned. Media coverage, especially in the Hearst papers, was muted. Rumors flew, naturally, the juiciest being that Hearst had something to do with Ince's death and hatched a coverup. ``The Cat's Meow,'' which represents something of a comeback for director Peter Bogdanovich, goes the mainstream tabloid route in accounting for the murk surrounding Ince's death. Choosing not to reconstruct the events as has, say, Louis Pizzitola's fascinating new book, ``Hearst Over Hollywood,'' ``The Cat's Meow'' is essentially a screenful of actors, most good, playing dress-up in Jazz Age splendor, acting out the most popular of the conspiracy theories that present Hearst in a bad light. It's pretty linear and only makeup-deep, but Bogdanovich ties it together with efficiency and an affection for the period. Zestful performances do a lot to compensate for the shortcomings of Steven Peros's functional but not very textured or evocative script, especially Kirsten Dunst's as Hearst's mistress, actress Marion Davies, a tinny but tough and on the whole admirable working girl from Brooklyn. We're convinced that this Davies loves Hearst in her way, that she wasn't just with him for the money. Lively and poignant, it's one of the best performances by today's best young actress. Edward Herrmann is as marvelous a Hearst as the script permits him to be, which is not enough. Herrmann, who even looks like Hearst, effortlessly projects the spoiled rich man's bullying side as well as the vulnerability resulting from how much he adored Davies. But while Hearst may have had his petulant side, he was hardly the doddering old fool ``The Cat's Meow'' makes him out to be. He had enough vision to realize how potent movies were, and he made them for decades _ and not just so he could meet actresses. Amusingly, the movie presents Hearst and Charlie Chaplin as soul brothers, equally self-absorbed and insensitive to others. Eddie Izzard looks nothing like Chaplin and never convinces us he is the great comedian, as, say, Robert Downey Jr. did. What Izzard does do that's impressive is convince us we're seeing Chaplin at a moment when his career is vulnerable to market forces. Possibly to escape from professional pressures, we see him stepping up his offensive to lure Davies from Hearst's side to his. Izzard isn't always convincing, but he's always absorbing. Joanna Lumley of ``Absolutely Fabulous'' is fun as Elinor Glyn, an author of overripe romances and the closest the film comes to a narrator. One can't help hearing her scornful descriptions of Hollywood crassness and its destructive influence and not think of Bogdanovich's own ups and downs. Another plus is Jennifer Tilly's gossip-columnist-to-be, Louella Parsons, especially in a scene with Hearst in which she nails down a lifetime contract in exchange for her silence. ``The Cat's Meow'' could have been _ and should have been _ richer and more resonant. It's Hollywood Babylon Lite, only TV movie-deep. But at least it's tangy. 
