The New York Times said in an editorial forWednesday, May 1: The ultimate deal maker has been dealt away. Under pressure from his board of directors, Bernard Ebbers, perhaps the most celebrated telecom entrepreneur of the last quarter century, has resigned as chief executive of WorldCom, the beleaguered communications empire he stitched together with more than 75 acquisitions. The abrupt departure of Ebbers, first reported in Tuesday's Wall Street Journal, provides a fitting exclamation mark to the meltdown of the nation's telecom sector, which has cost shareholders a staggering $2 trillion. Though born in Canada, Ebbers is a quintessentially American maverick entrepreneur who thrived by upsetting the establishment. While managing motels in Mississippi in 1983, Ebbers saw an opportunity in Ma Bell's impending breakup and decided to start a company called LDDS, or Long Distance Discount Service. Through a series of frantic deals that leveraged its ever-rising stock price, that company evolved into WorldCom, the leading carrier of Internet traffic and the nation's second-largest long-distance phone company. WorldCom embodies the excesses of the 1990s stock market bubble and the unfulfilled aspirations of telecommunications deregulation. Unlike other populist capitalists who have acquired near folk-hero status in corporate America _ think of Herb Kelleher of Southwest Airlines and Sam Walton _ Ebbers was more interested in doing deals than in ensuring that his company was well managed. WorldCom now faces a Securities and Exchange Commission inquiry into its accounting practices. At issue is whether the company fudged the books on its dizzying array of mergers or engaged in revenue-swap deals with others to exaggerate its profits. The SEC is also seeking information about $366 million in low-interest loans and loan guarantees the company extended to Ebbers, an egregious case of executive compensation abuse that shareholders rightly deplore. WorldCom's larger problem is the weakness of its core businesses. Much of the telecom slump is due to the fact that too many people emulating WorldCom rushed out to build excess capacity. In the phone arena, MCI, a unit of WorldCom, has been punished along with AT&AMP;T and other long-distance players by plummeting rates and an inability to compete on a level playing field with the regional Baby Bells. Having sacked its founder, WorldCom's own day of reckoning may be drawing near. 
