Maybe it's just the smell of fried chicken, which pulls at the heart strings and brings back dreams of potato salad, blueberry pie and homemade ice cream. If thoughts like these are dancing through your head, it could be time for a family reunion. Most reunions are held in the summer, when the weather is better and it's time for a vacation. Families who have successful reunions often get there with a plan _ including ideas for the date, budget, place, size, what to eat and even what to do. Luckily for reunion planners, there's plenty of material out there, from the ``Family Reunion Planning Kit for Dummies'' by Cheryl Fall (Hungry Minds, $24.99) to a variety of Web sites, such as www.family-reunion.com and www.genealogytoday.com/topics/reunions. Here are some helpful reunion tips: _So the desire to re-establish family ties has taken over. First, think about why you want to hold a reunion. Is a major family event coming up? If not, do you want to organize the reunion around a theme or a guest? _If a committee is planning the event, make sure those in the group get along. Planning for 20 or less is simple. If it's bigger than that, experts advise that you delegate duties. _Inviting every member of your extended family may not be possible. Try organizing the guest list around a common factor _ like the grandchildren and great-grandchildren or a couple planning a milestone anniversary. _Locate relatives. Make a list of family members from your phone book or holiday card list. Call or write those family members to find addresses of others. Hitting a dead end? Get on the Internet. Use a people-finder Web site like www.people.yahoo.com, www.switchboard.com or SuperPages.com. _Pick a date. If you can't schedule the reunion in the summer, organize it around a three-day weekend. Suggest at least three possible dates and let the majority decide which is best. _Send a survey letter to relatives asking for suggestions on food to serve, games and activities and whether the family wants a one-day or multiple-day reunion. While you're at it, ask for volunteers to help plan the reunion. _Location, location, location. Lots of factors go into picking a site, including: how many people will attend, date and time of day of the reunion, activities and budget. Options range from the back yard to parks, hotel ballrooms, a local church, the beach, or the old family farm. _Keep the family busy. To break the ice, try games like a scavenger hunt, three-legged races or family bingo. _Establish traditions, such as compiling a family tree, posing for a group photograph, recording oral histories, making a photo or video scrapbook and putting together a recipe book. XXX END OF STORY 
