A man indulges in a guilty pleasure. He spends about $40 a month on funny books, mostly the superhero variety. Guys in tights. Daredevil. Superman. You got a problem with that? ``It's better than cigarettes and drugs and adultery,'' says Kevin Fowler, 31, a father of three. He doesn't hide his habit from his fiancee or his children. They all like comic books too. It's the rest of society that belittles comics as fodder for kids and geeky collectors. But a tingly feeling is energizing the comics community right now, a ``spider-sense'' that a certain web-slinger can put things right. Look to the skies! It's your friendly neighborhood ''Spider-Man,'' a $139 million blockbuster opening today, that may be the best chance yet for the humble comic book to regain its former stature. ``I think it will do wonders,'' says Fowler, who has already bought and consumed the novelization and the comic adaptation of the movie. Fans, artists, dealers and industry watchers hope that moviegoers ensnared by the film's slick special effects (and the requisite romance between Tobey ``Spider-Man'' Maguire and Kirsten ``Mary Jane'' Dunst) will also get stuck on Spider-Man comics. This could open comic shop doors to the general audience that abandoned comics after the Golden Age of the 1940s and never returned. Not that the fate of comic books is hanging by a thread. In fact, the comics world seems, like Green Lantern's ring, recharged and ready to rock. Consider the heroes to be unleashed on movie audiences next year: ``The Hulk'' will smash up the scenery in a film directed by refined auteur Ang Lee. Ben Affleck will star as the blind Everyman in ``Daredevil.'' 2003 will also bring ``X2,'' the sequel to 2000's surprise success ``X-Men.'' Comics exert their strange gravitational rays on other media. The tales of Superman's boyhood in the WB network's ``Smallville'' grabbed a hip young audience and critical kudos. Tom Hanks' upcoming television movie ``The Road to Perdition'' is based on a graphic novel. And last year's Pulitzer prize-winner, ``The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier &AMP; Clay'' by Michael Chabon, is a sprawling novel of comics and culture, focusing on the lives of a dynamic duo _ an artist and writer _ and their four-color creation. Can the millions who watch movies be persuaded to read a kid's pulpy magazine? Insiders hope so. To capitalize on spider hype, the usually contentious creators, publishers and distributors of comics are for the first time _ gasp! _ cooperating. They have organized an international comics giveaway the day after the movie's premiere. Saturday has been declared ``Free Comic Book Day.'' At 2,200 comic book stores in 29 countries (and all 50 states), retailers will hand out 2 million comics from 30 publishers. (The average comic costs $2.80.) Many will stage other events, including signings by famous artists. For comic shop owners, it's clobberin' time. ``If they're going to do one thing all year, they're going to do it May 4,'' says John Jackson Miller, editorial director of the industry bible, the Comics Buyer's Guide. Lost momentum This readiness contrasts starkly with the situation two years ago. The hit movie ``X-Men'' could have recruited a new crop of readers, but the curious were turned away by the tangled plots and arcane references in the X-Men comics themselves. ``We missed the boat,'' says Marvel editor-in-chief Joe Quesada. ``You were walking into the middle of this 40-year-old world (of X-Men lore), and you needed a few years of reading just to find out what the cast of characters was.'' Cliff Biggers, owner of Dr. No's Comics, Games, Books and Cards in Marietta, Ga., says he's expecting a crowd Saturday. And this time his utility belt is packed with goodies. He's deep with issues of Ultimate Spider-Man, a new Marvel title that's a sort of a Spidey primer. It erases all Spider-Man's adult history (marriage, offspring, separation, depression) and starts over with the 15-year-old high school nerd, Peter Parker, and his fateful arachnid encounter. He also offers the hardback compilation of the first 13 Ultimate issues, which, at $35, is a hit with grown-ups who don't want to fool with individual magazines. Other prices are geared to adults as well: There are resin statuettes of pneumatically-endowed heroines and villainesses (like Catwoman and Poison Ivy) for anywhere from $40 to $250. There is a full-size, leather-wrapped aluminum replica of Thor's hammer for $350. But mostly there are walls and walls of comics, from Archie to Sandman, from Japanese manga to cartoon treatises on the history of physics and the Bosnian conflict. ``The audience has changed,'' says Biggers. ``Twenty years ago they were 12 to 20. Now they're 18 to 35. But the kids are coming back.'' If so, part of the credit should go to a mild-mannered mechanical pencil pusher named Mark Bagley, who draws Ultimate Spider-Man and lives off a country road near Acworth. A roller-coaster ride Bagley purposefully gears his artwork to the general reader, and believes that the basic Spider-Man saga should appeal to all audiences. Says Bagley, ``I defy anyone to read the first 13 issues of Ultimate Spider-Man and not say, `That's a hell of a story.' '' Bagley and others say comics have never been better. But back in the 1930s, they were simply newspaper strips that had been reprinted between two covers and recycled as magazines for kids. By the late '30s the world of comics had expanded. Comic magazines were in every newsstand, grocery, cigar shop and drugstore, and featured artwork and stories high and low, from the ``big-foot'' comedy styles of Popeye to the painterly dreamscapes of Little Nemo. DC Comics' quintessential superhero, Superman, was born in 1938. Comics took a hit in the 1950s with the publication of ``Seduction of the Innocent,'' which blamed comics for corrupting young people. They rebounded in the 1960s, which marked comics' Silver Age and the rise of Marvel, on the strength of its flagship title, the Amazing Spider-Man. The comic-reading audience became narrower through the years, as the publishers concentrated on the male adolescent. Comics also generally disappeared from the grocery store shelves and specialty shops took over. Spider-Man made his debut in August 1962. A mint copy of that comic, Amazing Fantasy No. 15, sells for $25,000. Biggers sold a copy and paid for his wife's engagement ring. But when comics went from pulpy entertainment to financial investment they lost their grounding. The collectible craze peaked in the early '90s with the inaugural issue of the ``new'' X-Men (which sold 7.1 million copies) and DC's ``Death of Superman'' issue. Speculators bought comics by the thousands, and sales surged in 1993 to $850 million. Then the bubble burst. The new comics were ubiquitous as toilet paper, and of similar quality, says Paul Jenkins, a Lawrenceville resident who writes Peter Parker: Spider-Man. As investments, they were worthless. Sales dropped to $250 million. Marvel filed for bankruptcy. Through corporate reorganization and thoughtful pruning, Marvel is healthy again and the industry is turning around, with April and May retail orders up 20 percent over the same period last year, according to Miller. Comics are also beginning to emerge from their Rodney Dangerfield status _ what Quesada calls ``the bastard child of the arts.'' At least 50 university libraries have amassed research collections of comics for students of popular culture, including the 150,000-plus collection at Michigan State University. Jenkins points out that comics are perhaps the oldest art form in existence, if you consider the 100,000-year-old Aboriginal cave paintings of Australia as a similar form of sequential art. Comics have a past. Do they have a future? Find out in the next issue. 'Nuff said. Bo Emerson writes for The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. E-mail: bemerson(at)ajc.com Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
