As the new president and chief executive of WorldCom, John Sidgmore, tries to restore Wall Street's faith in the troubled telecommunications giant, one big question involves the future of MCI, WorldCom's most visible link to the typical phone user. With 20 million customers, 28,000 employees and revenue last year of $13.83 billion, MCI is the nation's second-largest long-distance phone company after AT&AMP;T and a leading provider of the networks that Internet service companies need to connect consumers and small businesses. But MCI has come to be seen on Wall Street as a depressing example of the difference between a big business and a good business. Both revenues and profits have been declining as long-distance customers send e-mails and instant messages over the Internet instead of making phone calls or use cell phones to make the calls MCI once carried. To make matters worse, the giant local phone companies created by the breakup of the old AT&AMP;T have begun to win regulatory approval to sell long-distance services in their home markets. Those companies _ Verizon, SBC Communications, BellSouth and Qwest Communications International _ are expected to grab as much as 50 percent of the shrinking landline long-distance by 2005. And that pie will probably shrink to $16.2 billion in the United States in 2005 from $18.9 billion last year, according to Forrester Research. Meanwhile, Forrester expects the dial-up data market to slump to $5.4 billion in 2006 from $10.7 billion this year. The man most responsible for making the best of MCI's tough situation is Wayne Huyard, an 18-year veteran of MCI who carries the title of chief operating officer for the unit. Huyard has put almost all of his strategic bets on a new MCI marketing program announced last month called The Neighborhood. The Neighborhood offers a bundled local and long-distance phone service for a flat monthly rate, which ranges from $49.99 to $59.99 in different parts of the country, not including taxes. By taking MCI full-bore into the competition for local phone business _ the company currently provides such service to just 1.6 million households _ The Neighborhood expands the market MCI can attack to $80 billion from $40 billion, Huyard said. Moreover, customers signing up for the plan generate three times as much revenue and twice as much in earnings before taxes and other expenses as stand-alone long-distance customers, Huyard said. ``What we've launched is the second chapter of MCI's history of dismantling phone monopolies,'' he said, likening MCI's thrust into local telephony to its early days as the first company to attack AT&AMP;T's long-distance monopoly. (BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) One crucial difference is that the current plan is also functioning as a counterattack at the regional Bell companies as they begin bundling their local service with long-distance plans. Regulators have allowed them to re-enter the long-distance market in 11 states and they are expected to enter most others by the end of the year. Huyard said that The Neighborhood, currently offered to about 55 percent of potential customers, or 55 million households, will extend to 85 percent of the country by next year. Going on the attack will be a morale booster for MCI, which is supporting the program with its first major advertising campaign in three years, Huyard said. More importantly, he is counting on it to allow MCI to report revenue growth by next year. Few analysts are that optimistic. They say it is unclear which bundles of services will appeal most to consumers. MCI's, for example, does not cover non-voice traffic such as connections to the Internet or wireless. Nor is it clear that price competition will not quickly eat into profits. Charles Golvin, who follows the industry for Forrester Research, said that MCI's most valuable asset is probably its network and that the company should probably focus more resources on selling access to it to other carriers rather than courting consumers directly. (END OPTIONAL TRIM) One thing is clear. Many analysts would rather see Wall Street milking MCI than investing in it. Under Sidgmore's predecessor, Bernard J. Ebbers, WorldCom's strategy had been to first strip MCI of the big business customers that represented its best prospects for growth, then distance the rest of WorldCom as much as possible from the remaining consumer operations. Indeed, MCI was set up last year as a heavily indebted subsidiary with just one mission: generate enough profits from its business to pay down the massive debts attributed to it on the company's books and cover a 60-cents-a-quarter dividend on a tracking stock carrying the MCI name. But long before last weekend, when Ebbers was forced into an early retirement by disgruntled members of WorldCom's board, most of the assumptions behind the strategy had come unglued. The parts of WorldCom expected to grow rapidly did not and MCI's business proved weaker than expected. The tracking stock, WorldCom-MCI Group, which initially traded at $17.85, fell 54 cents Wednesday to $3.21, a record closing low. WorldCom dropped 27 cents to $2.21. As analysts see it, MCI has little if any remaining value to investors except its dividend. Jack B. Grubman, the Salomon Smith Barney analyst who was long one of Ebbers' biggest fans on Wall Street, estimated on Wednesday that MCI stock without the dividend is worth no more than 80 cents a share, or roughly $95 million. And with the dividend yielding more than 74 percent at Wednesday's price, the only question on Wall Street's mind is how quickly Sidgmore either sharply reduces it or eliminates it. However, doing so while protecting both WorldCom and MCI shareholders will be tricky. Sidgmore has shown little interest in MCI's businesses in the past and, on Tuesday, in his first conference call with analysts, he said his inclination was to focus on increasing WorldCom's activities with big business customers. ``The fastest way to get growth in a company like this is to get big deals with big companies,'' he said. 
