With the dismissal of a lawsuit over its nasty fight for shareholder approval, Hewlett-Packard Co. can finally move on to the next big headache: the business of doing business with its new partner, Compaq Computer Corp. Blending the two companies' operations will be difficult and expensive. The slow economy has dulled demand for business equipment. And customer uncertainty over the merger has let market share bleed away to Dell Computer Corp. and others. But in an industry built on machines, the biggest challenge could come down to people. Morale is suffering at both companies, and has hit an all-time low at H-P. Some workers resigned amid the rancorous infighting that accompanied a neck-and-neck proxy battle, and the rest were told that the combined companies plan 15,000 layoffs to save money. A Delaware judge ruled Tuesday that former H-P director Walter Hewlett failed to prove his claims that H-P executives misled investors and improperly influenced at least one shareholder to vote for the deal, clearing the way for the $18.5 billion merger's expected close on Friday and the launch of the new company next Tuesday. But while vindicating H-P executives, the court decision hasn't changed the fact that many employees at the company still have little faith in their leaders. ``The trust is gone,'' said Russ Hodes, an H-P employee in Austin, Texas. ``We don't trust the management, and we absolutely are divided'' over the merger. Hodes, 48, has worked for H-P in Austin and in Atlanta for 16 years. But partly because of his disillusionment with management and concerns over layoffs, he's keeping his eye out for a new job. Big mergers often bring pain to workers, regardless of industry. But in the technology business, intellectual property and employee knowledge is key to making new and innovative products. In a recent book, Microsoft Corp. valued its employees' knowledge at $350 billion, more than two-thirds of its market capitalization at the time. At close-knit H-P, the power of people is even more complex. The company was built on its employee-centric ``H-P Way'' that current and ex-workers say valued input from rank-and-file employees, instilled trust in management, and fostered a family-like atmosphere. The company has often been ranked among the best places to work. H-P Chairman Carly Fiorina has said the ``H-P Way'' is still alive and well. Thousands of hours have been spent on employee and cultural issues by hundreds of workers on the so-called internal ``Clean Team'' charged with integrating the two companies. Internal surveys, she claims, show H-P employees support the merger, although outside surveys showed the exact opposite. Either way, layoffs and heavy-handed management moves, like the recent firing of an employee for leaking information to the press and investigations into other employees, haven't helped the image of Fiorina and her top lieutenants internally. ``There was always a level of respect between employees and management there that today, I think, is clearly missing,'' said Dan Lamb, an H-P retiree who worked for the company for 29 years. Ever since Fiorina became H-P's first chief executive recruited from outside the company in July 1999, she has had a tough time connecting with the rank and file. Many blame her directly for the company's recent missteps and problems: The attempted merger two years ago with PricewaterhouseCoopers that H-P abandoned. The declining profits and a stock price that has sunk more than 60 percent since her arrival. Most of all, a debilitating layoff of 6,000 workers last summer. ``I was cautiously optimistic when she arrived, but over time ... I found her messages lacked integrity or truth for me,'' said Tom Henneman, who said he was laid off after 19 1/2 years. ``She's all show and no go. She uses all the right words, she knows how to sell, but that's it.'' Once gregarious and outspoken both inside the company and out, Fiorina today is insular and reserved, at least in public. Her status as the world's most powerful female business executive declined along with her job security during the ugly proxy fight. Still headstrong and set in her mission to forever change H-P, she has learned the hard way that she needs to be sensitive to H-P's deep roots. ``Our core values, our fundamentals, our beliefs in the things that make this company special will not change,'' she tried to assure shareholders and employees in March. Many in attendance would nonetheless boo her later. One of H-P management's first priorities now must be to find some way _ or someone _ to reconnect with and retain employees, according to Paul McGuckin, an analyst at the Gartner Inc. technology research firm. ``Someone has to come in and try to get disgruntled employees at H-P to reengage and enthusiastically realign with the company going forward,'' he said. ``But the personal hatred (by some employees) toward Carly Fiorina ... makes it even more difficult.'' McGuckin and others say that Michael Capellas, chairman of Compaq and soon to be president of H-P, may become that person. ``Capellas is sort of a fatherly figure, someone who seems to inspire a lot of emotional loyalty,'' McGuckin said. ``My sense is that Carly, for all her strengths, is much better at inspiring obedience than loyalty.'' Bob Keefe covers the West Coast for Cox Newspapers. Contact him at bkeefe(at)coxnews.com ENDIT Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
