It was not quite Ted Williams stubbornly trying to smash a hit through the infield shift. But the Oakland Athletics' strategy of stacking three fielders to the right of second base against the Yankees' Jason Giambi was working. In six consecutive at-bats over three games, Giambi had hit grounders that way. Twice he got hits, but the A's seemed to have taken some life out of Giambi, their former team leader. By the time Giambi came to the plate in the sixth inning on Thursday night, he had gone without a home run in 32 at-bats, a season high. Most of those at-bats had come against Oakland. But Giambi snapped the streak by connecting on a towering two-run homer that broke a tie and sent the Yankees to a 9-2 victory at misty Yankee Stadium. It was Giambi's fifth home run and his first to tie a game or put the Yankees ahead. It also earned him a curtain call from fans who had booed him during a difficult start to his Yankees career. Derek Jeter, who was 3 for 4 with two doubles, led off the sixth inning with a bloop single to right field off Cory Lidle. Giambi followed by lifting a 1-1 curveball into the alley beside the right-field bleachers. It was his first homer since April 21, and it put the Yankees ahead, 4-2. That was enough for Roger Clemens, who worked six and two-thirds innings, striking out nine and allowing two runs and five hits. He left with the bases loaded in the seventh, but Steve Karsay got a groundout to preserve the lead, and the Yankees piled on in the bottom of the inning. Bernie Williams muscled a homer to right-center off a left-hander, Mike Holtz. Jeter followed with a double off the left-field wall, and Giambi pulled a double down the line to score him. Another run scored on Robin Ventura's third single of the night. The victory gave the Yankees four in six games against the Athletics, a team they beat in the playoffs in each of the last two seasons. The teams meet again for a three-game series in New York in August. The A's had a 3-0 lead after three innings on Wednesday night, and the Yankees never mounted a challenge against six Oakland pitchers. It was different on Thursday night. Clemens fell behind by 2-0 after three innings, but then the Yankees went to work against Lidle. With two outs and the bases empty in the third inning, Williams floated a single to left field. Lidle then hung a curveball to Jeter, who clubbed it into the left-field corner. The third-base coach Willie Randolph sent Williams home, and Miguel Tejada seemed to have a good chance to get him with a relay throw. But Williams accelerated after he rounded third, and the extra gear allowed him to beat Tejada's throw and score the Yankees' first run. Giambi, again facing a shift with three infielders on the right side, grounded out to second baseman Frank Menechino, positioned in shallow right, to end the inning. The Yankees entered the game ranked third in the American League in homers, but, as manager Joe Torre has pointed out, with home runs come strikeouts. The Yankees also lead in strikeouts, by far. ``It's something you don't like to see,'' Torre said. ``You need to advance the runners. When you get a guy to second base, you don't need to get another hit to get him home. But in order to do that, you need to make contact.'' Torre must have been pleased, then, to see the Yankees score as they did in the fifth. Nick Johnson, who was in a 3-for-28 slump, singled to center and was running on a full count when John Vander Wal singled through the vacated hole at short. Johnson made it to third and then scored when Alfonso Soriano grounded into a double play. No RBI was credited to Soriano, but he has averaged more than one strikeout a game, and making contact there helped the Yankees tie the score, 2-2. 
