In supporting its arrest of the leader of an Islamic charity this week, the Justice Department has made public new information tying a wealthy Saudi businessman, who is Osama bin Laden's brother-in-law, to several people convicted in the bombing of the World Trade Center in 1993 or in unsuccessful plots to bring down airliners and assassinate the pope. An affidavit filed in Chicago by an FBI agent accused the businessman, Mohamad Jamal Khalifa, of being ``directly linked'' not only to Ramzi Yousef and others convicted in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing but also to the Chicago-based Benevolence International Foundation and its director, Enaam M. Arnaout. On Tuesday, the government arrested Arnaout and accused the foundation of secretly funneling money to al-Qaida. It also charged Arnaout with lying under oath about his connections to bin Laden. The affidavit, also filed Tuesday, links Khalifa, who is married to bin Laden's sister, to a web of Islamic militants who have operated from the Philippines to Bosnia to Chechnya to Illinois. Khalifa's whereabouts are uncertain, and repeated calls to the Saudi embassy in Washington were not returned Wednesday. But the affidavit publicly expands the list of his reported ties to terrorists and details at least one contradictory statement he has made about them. The government has been interested in Khalifa since he was detained by immigration authorities in December 1994, two weeks after he entered the United States on a visa issued in Jidda, Saudi Arabia. Steve Emerson, a terrorism expert, said Khalifa was given a visa even though he had been sentenced to death in Jordan, in absentia, on charges of conspiring to commit terrorist acts. Jordan had accused Khalifa of involvement in plots to bomb public places in Jordan, including movie theaters. Two of the main participants in those bombings had spent time with Khalifa in the Philippines, according to the FBI affidavit filed in Chicago. Khalifa was extradited from the United States to Jordan, retried, and acquitted of the bomb plot charges. At the trial in Jordan, Khalifa admitted that he had known the bombers and had sent them money, though he said the payments were for past services. During his detention in San Francisco, the FBI affidavit said, Khalifa admitted knowing and training the bombers but said he had disassociated himself from them upon learning they were violent. The affidavit disclosed that American law enforcement authorities had copied some of Khalifa's materials during his detention and that later investigations showed that he was tied to several of the 1993 World Trade Center plotters. For instance, the affidavit said, when Khalifa was detained, he had in his phone book and his electronic organizer the beeper number of Wali Khan, who was convicted in a mid-1990s plot to bomb 12 flights from Southeast Asia as they flew over American cities. There were also calls between Khan's apartment and the cellular telephone of Khalifa in November 1994. The affidavit said that Khalifa also possessed documents referring to the assassination of bishops and bombings of churches at a time when Khan and others were planning to kill the pope during a planned visit to the Philippines in 1995. The affidavit focuses on Khalifa, who is not charged in the Chicago case, as part of its effort to show the extent of the ties between bin Laden's associates and Arnaout and his Benevolence International Foundation. The document also notes that Khalifa traveled in 1994 with Mohamed Bayazid, who, according to the affidavit, tried to secure uranium for a nuclear bomb for bin Laden in 1993-94. Saudi officials told The New York Times last October that Khalifa had been arrested after the Sept. 11 attacks and was being held. But the president of the Philippines said about the same time that Khalifa had offered by letter to help negotiate the release of two Americans being held hostage by a militant Islamic group in the Philippines. 
