TO STEM SPAM, SOME ISPS BLOCK E-MAIL FROM ASIA ATTENTION EDITORS: This article from the NEWHOUSE NEWS SERVICE report of TUESDAY, APRIL 30, 2002, is available as a ``separate buy.'' For information about purchasing the article, contact DEBRA WEYDERT of The New York Times Syndicate at 732-390-4480; fax, 732-390-4697; e-mail, weyded(at)nytimes.com Art advisory: With a graphic showing how spam is filtered or blocked For information about purchasing art call 202-383-7824 By MARGIE WYLIE c.2002 Newhouse News Service (UNDATED) An electronic Great Wall is rising around parts of East Asia, brick by virtual brick. Finding some nations unable or unwilling to stem the tide of spam, frustrated network operators in the United States are increasingly blocking out all e-mail from those sources. ``There's a huge volume of spam coming out of Asia, more than out of other (regions),'' said Margie Arbon, director of operations at the Mail Abuse Prevention System. MAPS is a nonprofit spam-fighting organization based in Redwood City, Calif. To gauge the problem, MAPS Executive Director Dave Rand tracked Asian spam on the e-mail server (a computer that acts as the post office for a group of e-mail boxes) that he runs in his home as a hobby. Some 45 percent of the 4 million junk e-mails he had received since January 2001 came from the ``Asia Pacific'' category of Internet addresses, Rand said. In the last year, China and South Korea in particular have become favorite relay points for the unsolicited advertising, experts said. Very little spam actually originates in either country. Junk e-mailers anywhere can reach through the Internet and hack any reasonably powerful computer to send spam, said Steve Dougherty, director of systems vendor management for Earthlink Inc. As Western Internet service providers like Earthlink clamp down on spam, junk e-mailers have turned their sights on Asia, hijacking unsecured servers. South Korea, for example, has poured money into making high-speed, always-on connections available in schools, homes and businesses, Dougherty said. Network owners usually cooperate to close down security holes that let spammers run amok. But when American networks warn their Asian counterparts of hijacked servers or spamming subscribers, the answer is typically silence or a shrug. ``My first approach when my servers were being inundated with this stuff was to ... e-mail or even sometimes telephone,'' said Adam Brower, proprietor of the Hermes Group, a contract network administrator in Mendota, Ill. Brower speaks a little Chinese, but no Korean, and rarely found English-speakers on the other end. But even when language wasn't a barrier, culture was. ``They wouldn't understand why (spam) was a bad thing,'' he said. ``In China, it's not considered bad form to solicit people without prior contact.'' So Brower started blocking, a process akin to using caller ID to deter unwanted phone calls. First, he identified the unique Internet Protocol address, or IP number, of any server routing spam his way. Then he programmed his e-mail servers to return to sender all messages coming from those addresses, along with a polite explanation of the problem. Nobody replied. Today he blocks ``great swaths'' of Kornet, the Korean state Internet service provider, for the more than 100,000 e-mail accounts he administers for corporate clients. Large Internet service providers, or ISPs, are more reluctant to block whole ranges of Internet addresses _ the equivalent of blocking entire area codes with caller ID. ``We have customers who get (legitimate) e-mail from China and Korea,'' said Nicholas Graham, a spokesman for America Online, the largest ISP in the United States with 17 million subscribers. The big ISPs normally accept all incoming mail, then attempt to sort out the spam before it reaches users. This is done by searching out keywords such as ``Viagra'' or looking for patterns typically employed by spammers. Even so, spam has become such a problem that America Online recently began blocking a ``few hundred'' Internet addresses on a long-term basis, said Carl Hutzler, AOL senior manager of mail operations. More than half those blocks are against Asian addresses, Hutzler said. (FIRST OPTIONAL TRIM BEGINS) Earthlink handles ``upticks'' in spam from South Korea and China by temporarily blocking more of those addresses, Dougherty said. ``When we see an e-mail storm, we'll block that address until that storm subsides,'' he said. But some of the worst offenders wind up blocked almost indefinitely. ``We may only lift the block to take a peek and then slam the window back closed,'' Dougherty said. ``Some of those we keep closed a long time.'' While most Asian-routed junk e-mail originates in the West, spam written in Chinese and Korean increasingly is dropping into American e-mail boxes, said John R. Levine, author of ``The Internet for Dummies.'' ``Clearly someone is going around (China and South Korea) saying that you can advertise for free on the wonderful Internet,'' said Levine, who also runs a small Web and e-mail hosting service in upstate New York. To protect his subscribers, Levin blocks ``pretty much every Korean address I can lay my hands on. It's mean and tough, but it's pretty much unavoidable.'' Levine shares his list of blocked addresses with other frustrated e-mail administrators, who have been downloading it at a rate of three times per second. Levine said he hopes Korean and Chinese system administrators will come around ``once they figure out that all we want them to do is keep American criminals from stealing their computers.'' (FIRST OPTIONAL TRIM ENDS) In March, China's National People's Congress condemned Western countries for disrupting e-mail with spam blocks, according to the country's official Xinhua News Agency. But U.S. companies say they have had few complaints from users or from the blocked Asian networks. ``When we have to block someone in Europe or the U.S. we get a call very quickly,'' said AOL's Hutzler. ``But we haven't gotten any calls from Korea or China yet. The people we have been blocking don't seem to care.'' That pervasive silence has left U.S. network operators to draw their own conclusions. Hutzler said he thinks spammers aren't attacking Asian e-mail servers, but rather are hacking into Asian Web servers and other Internet-connected computers that can relay the e-mail broadcasts but remain oblivious to any return messages. Arbon, at MAPS, said some Asian ISPs may be knowingly hosting spammers driven off Western networks. ``It's tempting; there's a lot of money being thrown around,'' she said. Others think that under-trained administrators may lack the time and resources to deal with spam, and so ingore it. Obviously, language is one obstacle to finding out, Brower said. He is building an educational Web site in Mandarin Chinese that explains to system administrators what spam is, why Westerners find it objectionable, and how to close security holes that let spammers run loose on networks. Such tutorials _ commonly known as LARTS, or Loser Attitude Readjustment Tools _ aren't yet available in Korean and Chinese. If network operators don't help keep spammers at bay, ``all e-mail communications between organizations are going to be by permit only,'' AOL's Hutzler warned. ``That's where the spammers are pushing everyone.'' (SECOND OPTIONAL TRIM FOLLOWS) In South Korea, stiffer anti-spam laws are under consideration, and at least one ISP is attempting to discourage junk e-mail by charging spammers fees. The Beijing Administration for Industry and Commerce proposed spam-fighting guidelines in May 2000, and China Telecom announced such initiatives in August 2000 and January of this year, according to Xinhua. But American ISPs have seen little discernible relief. In the wake of the National People's Congress in March, some Chinese officials declared that only international regulations can curb spam. But regulations, experts agree, are largely ineffectual in the freewheeling environment in which the Internet has evolved. LF END WYLIE (Margie Wylie can be contacted at margie.wylie(at)newhouse.com) 
