As expected, the two Kentucky Derby challengers from Ireland, Johannesburg and Castle Gandolfo, cleared quarantine Wednesday evening. And at 2:45 p.m. Thursday, Castle Gandolfo took a soggy stroll to the Keeneland starting gate to get a certification he needs before he can run in the United States. A four-stall auxiliary gate was used, and Keeneland officials did not set it up on the racetrack or the 5-furlong training oval. Rather, the gate was hauled to a slightly inclined grassy area adjacent to the barn where the horses are kept. Keeneland's starter, Robert Alexander, conceded that this was an unusual procedure for any horse to become gate certified. ``I've been working starting gates since 1968 but have never seen or heard of it being done this way before,'' he said. The owners of Johannesburg and Castle Gandolfo, Michael Tabor and Susan Magnier, are heavy spenders at Keeneland's horse sales, which are the most expensive and prominent in the world. Keeneland personnel have been instructed to cooperate with them in every way possible. Training takes place at Keeneland year around. At 8 a.m. Friday, the main track will be closed for about 20 minutes for harrowing, a standard procedure. Johannesburg, who got American certification in the starting gate last fall when he won the Breeders' Cup Juvenile at Belmont Park, and Castle Gandolfo will then be allowed to work or gallop on the track with their exercise riders and lead ponies. All other horses will be barred. At 5 a.m. Saturday, Derby morning, Johannesburg and Castle Gandolfo will be taken by van to Churchill Downs for the race. LOADS OF LONG SHOTS At 9-2, Harlan's Holiday has the highest morning-line odds for a Kentucky Derby favorite since parimutuel wagering was introduced at Churchill Downs a century ago. But this year's field includes four horses who will be 50-1 in the program. That has never happened before either. One reason is that before last year as many as 11 long shots were coupled together as a single wagering entity when large numbers of horses drew into the race. But now, every horse is bet individually. It'sallinthechase, a winner of two of 14 career starts, is one of this year's 50-1 horses. ``And I'm shocked at that, because I thought his odds would be higher,'' his trainer, Wilson Brown, said. ``But it doesn't matter. Horses can't read and they don't bet.'' The longest shot to win the Kentucky Derby was Donerail, who returned $184.90 for a $2 bet to win in 1913. The longest shot to go the post in the race was A Dragon Killer, at 294-1 in 1958. A Dragon Killer finished seventh of 14. 
