The sheiks from Dubai, a prince from Saudi Arabia and a well-heeled consortium of thoroughbred connoisseurs from Ireland all have horses ready to make the 128th running of the Kentucky Derby their own. None of them intimidate Glen Corbett, a jockey who has come in from Altoona, Iowa, to make his Derby debut aboard a horse called Lusty Latin. Nor does anyone scare Wilson Brown, who doffs his white cowboy hat, pats his ample belly and insists It'sallinthechase is going to represent Jones, Okla., just fine. And William Reed? The heart surgeon from Kansas City believes his Midwest- raised gelding may live up to his name, Perfect Drift, which describes a fly-fishing technique that takes a steady hand, a certain amount of stealth and, when successful, plucks quite a trophy from the river. ``I always say that I'm one good horse from retiring,'' said Reed, who bred Perfect Drift, a son of Dynaformer, himself. ``This may be the one.'' A horseman's perpetual belief that the right horse is in his barn is hardly new to the Commonwealth of Kentucky on the first weekend in May and perhaps Red Smith, the late New York Times columnist, summed up this fever best when he wrote, ``Owners still believe that anything with a leg on each corner has a chance in Louisville.'' But the fact that there is no clear-cut favorite in this year's Kentucky Derby has marbled the usual eccentric melange of racetrack characters at any big race with a funky, everyman's quality. More remarkable is that Corbett or Brown or Reed may just have a chance to do the unthinkable and win the Derby. ``He gets rolling late and there's a lot of stretch here for Lusty Latin to run down the leaders,'' said Corbett, unfazed by his gray colt's 30-1 morning-line odds. Lusty Latin, indeed, gobbled up ground in the Santa Anita Derby, finishing a late, closing third, beaten by only three lengths by Came Home, a 5-1 second choice in the Kentucky Derby's morning-line odds. How much does the 36-year-old jockey believe? He flew here Sunday night from Iowa, rode Lusty Latin in a Monday-morning workout and returned to Iowa that evening to ride seven races at Prairie Meadows. On Wednesday night, he had six mounts at the Iowa track and finished second in two of them, to raise his record for the meet to one victory, eight seconds and three thirds in 33 starts. It is not that Corbett is taking the Derby lightly _ it is the highlight of a 16-year career spent mostly in the Midwest and now split between the Iowa and Arizona circuits, where the purses are not nearly as rich as Kentucky, New York and Southern California. He needs to keep working; Corbett's second-place finish aboard Alaskan Lights on Wednesday was worth $4,200 and raised the winnings he has earned at Prairie Meadows to more than $70,000. But that sounds better than it is: a rider's cut is 10 percent of the winnings, which, in this case, is $7,000 minus the 25 percent that goes to Corbett's agent. Fortunately, the owners of Lusty Latin appreciate a workingman. Joey and Wendy Platts own a heavy construction business in Lyman, Wyo., and refused to replace Corbett with a big-named jockey when they decided to put the horse in the Derby. ``Any other owner and I'd still be in Iowa,'' said Corbett, who has guided the colt to a victory and three third-place finishes in stakes races. Brown, the trainer, does not care that It'sallinthechase is a dismissive 50-1 in the morning line. The colt has earned more than $192,000 and was beaten less than three lengths in the Louisiana Derby by Repent, an early Derby favorite that sustained an injury in last month's Illinois Derby. It'sallinthechase cost owner Darwin Olson $27,000 and has taken Brown a long way from his birthplace of Cement, Okla., to racetracks such as Arlington Park in Chicago, Belmont Park in New York last fall for the $1 million Breeders' Cup Juvenile and now to the most hallowed grounds of them all _ Churchill Downs. Not bad for an old farm boy whose father once accused him of ``having horse between your ears.'' He has even made a powerful new friend in D. Wayne Lukas, a four-time Derby winner. The Hall of Fame trainer, who, like Brown, sports a ten-gallon hat, has showed Brown the ropes and dazzled him with his barn of high-price horses. ``We cowboys got to keep the foreigners from winning this thing,'' Lukas told him, in jest. Brown, 59, knows it is unlikely that a colt as honest as It'sallinthechase will show up again in his small Oklahoma-based operation and that this is probably his one and only shot at the Derby. ``You know, in a fleeting moment it seems like flying to the moon _ you never think you're going to get there,'' Brown said. ``I'm here and like the man said, `You ain't gonna win it if you ain't in it.''' Finally, there is Reed, the heart surgeon turned horsemen whose Perfect Drift is a well-regarded 15-1 after winning the Grade II Spiral Stakes last March with an explosive late move. Winning the Derby would be more about having his vision validated than early retirement: Perfect Drift, like all his male racehorses, is a gelding and does not have the life of a stallion awaiting him. ``We have 110 acres and six broodmares, and we really don't have any room to keep a stallion,'' Reed said of his Stonecrest Farm in Kansas City, Mo. ``I was looking for a hobby, and I wanted to just get in the racing end.'' This streak of Midwest practicality extends to his Australian-born trainer, Murray Johnson, who chooses to stable his horses about a mile from Churchill Downs at a training track with a far more modest seven-furlong oval. Reed, Johnson and their colt have avoided the crush of gawkers that swarm the backside across from the twin spires. They have also taken satisfaction in the respect that Perfect Drift has commanded from rival trainers as well as horseplayers. As much as he knows that he has a live horse in the Derby, Reed cannot shake the feeling that good fortune has already smiled on him. ``We have a lottery in Missouri and your chances of drawing that are about like drawing a Kentucky Derby contender,'' Reed said. ``I guess the big-time breeders with a hundred broodmares look at every foal in terms of, `Is this the Derby horse?' But not us.'' Except in this instance. He is here, along with Johnson, and Corbett and Wilson Brown. Who says horse racing is only the sport of kings? 
