Q: I am building a counter top of 3/4''-thick plywood with rounded corners and plan to cover the top and edges with Formica or similar laminate. How can I bend strips of laminate around these corner edges without breaking or cracking the laminate? And how do I hold these strips in place while the glue sets? A: A heat gun (as shown in the illustration), set at low heat, will warm the plastic enough to permit easy bending. But before doing this, remember to fill in the plywood edges with a wood plastic and sand this smooth. The same contact cement used on the top covering will be used for the edges, so clamping is not needed. Apply two coats of this cement on the edge and another coat to the back of the laminate strip. Wear gloves while you use the heat gun to bend the plastic and press it in place with the heel of your hand. Then use a hard roller to ensure final even bonding. Q: Our apartment has an open veranda on the outside and we enclosed this with panels of clear vinyl plastic a couple of years ago to keep out the weather. The clear vinyl is now streaky and spotted and I can't seem to make it clear again, no matter what type of cleaner I use. Can you tell me how to clean these plastic panels? A: Clear vinyl plastic is not like clear glass _ it does spot and scratch easily and is much harder to keep clean. Try washing with a soft cloth or sponge dipped into mild detergent, then rinse thoroughly before this detergent solution dries. If this doesn't do the trick, buy one of the plastic cleaners that are sold for use on clear boat ``curtains.'' These are sold in most marine supply stores. Q: My marble-topped coffee table has various stains on it, some from spilled coffee and some from other liquids. Can these be cleaned off without harming the marble? A: Many hardware stores, home centers and marble dealers sell marble cleaning kits that contain an assortment of ingredients for removing different types of stains. After the stains are removed, the marble should be coated with a good quality white or clear wax. If none of these cleaners work, you may have to bring the top in to a professional marble shop or dealer who can polish the stains out by machine. Q: When I try to remove a hinged door, I find that after I remove the first hinge pin the door starts to sag off to one side so that removing the second or third hinge pin jams and becomes very difficult to pull out. Isn't there some way I can do this when I'm working alone, without having to call in somebody to help support the door? A: Here is a simple method: Swing the door open to about 90 degrees then wedge a few magazines or a folded stack of newspapers under the lock edge of the door (the opposite edge from the hinges). This will keep the door from sagging while you are pulling the remaining hinge pins out. Questions about home-repair problems should be addressed to Bernard Gladstone, care of The New York Times Syndication Sales Corp., 122 E. 42nd St., New York, N.Y. 10168. Questions of general interest will be answered in this column; Mr. Gladstone regrets that unpublished letters cannot be answered individually. NOTE: Drawing titled ``BENDING PLASTIC LAMINATE'' goes with this column. CAPTION: A heat gun set at low heat will make plastic laminate pliable and easier to bend around curves. 
