My love/hate relationship with SUVs. A neighborly dispute over warming up a truck. Why the interest in crossover vehicles? Is a Corolla a Prizm? A special license for SUV drivers? Another day at the post for the Answer Man. You ask 'em, I answer 'em. Q. Why do you keep pushing for antilock brake systems to be made standard on all cars? Until motorists or car dealers take two minutes to learn/explain how ABS works, and motorists remember they have ABS in an emergency, it will continue to offer little benefit to most drivers. A. I push ABS because it offers the safest, most controlled way to stop a vehicle in an emergency. Without brake lockup, which ABS prevents even as you keep the brake pressed to the floor and steer, you are far less likely to get uncontrolled skidding. Any salesperson who doesn't take two minutes to explain ABS should be fired. And if a driver can't take the two minutes to understand how ABS works, he or she shouldn't be driving. Q. I need your expert advice. My neighbor (who is a good friend) has a 10-year-old Ford F150 pickup truck. He leaves for work at 5:30 each morning and insists on warming the truck up for 15-20 minutes, even in the heat of summer. He claims this will prolong the life of his engine. It wakes me up, and I think he is wrong. Who's right? A. For this one, Answer Man turns to AAA's The Car Doctor, John Paul. His answer: All your neighbor is succeeding in doing is making you angry. Running an engine that long does no good, he says, and, in fact, probably allows the oil to be contaminated by gasoline and thereby reduces the life of the engine. Tell him to get in his truck, start the engine, adjust his seat, buckle his seat belt, and in that time, the engine will be warmed up enough. Q. Why are there so many ads for replacement automobile glass? Most people have insurance coverage for glass and I'm sure there are standard rates, so why the heavy competition? A. Because, for consumers, it's really easy to comparison shop for the best price, according to Kirk Hansen of the American Alliance of Auto Insurers. ``Window glass is window glass,'' he says, meaning it's a basic product without the variable that can go into fixing bent sheet metal. This means selling glass is very competitive and, Hansen says, there is ``no one dominant player.'' Q. Other than catering to the American public's idiotic romance with the SUV (idiotic because the vast majority of SUVs are not used in situations where their truck chassis and 4WD are needed, and they use too much fuel and pollute), please explain to me how this new generation of ``crossover'' wagons, built to look like SUVS and with high centers of gravity, are superior to station wagons that already exist such as the Audi, VW Passat, or even our trusty '96 Toyota Camry? A. First, none of the cars you mention will carry more than four or five passengers, and since you can't put children in the front seat, that means three kids, tops. Many of the crossovers will carry seven or eight passengers, and big families need that seating. Also, the crossovers do not sit as high as your typical SUV, many are built on car platforms, and, while they are all-wheel-drive, most make no pretense that they are built to be taken offroad. Q. Did the mileage numbers get reversed when you wrote about the Toyota Prius? It seems strange that city mileage (52 mpg) would be higher than highway (45 mpg). A. Good question, easily answered. The city mileage is higher because when the Prius is on the highway, the gasoline engine tends to dominate in order to maintain speed or to pass. In the city, the gasoline engine is often idle as the electric motor, by itself, propels the car at much slower city speeds. Q. How much do traction control, ABS, all-wheel-drive and other traction aids help on wet roads or other slippery surfaces? A. They are invaluable because they prevent two key potential loss of control situations: brake lockup and wheel spin. ABS monitors each brake and, at the point of lockup, releases the brake at the wheel for a fraction of a second so that lockup does not occur. Traction control monitors each driving wheel and, when it senses spin (such as on sand, in snow) it momentarily applies the brake to that wheel and sends engine power to any wheels not slipping. With AWD, traction control is more effective because it has four wheels to play with to keep you moving. Some traction control systems on AWD cars, in fact, can send power to only one wheel if necessary even as the other three lack traction. Q. On Saturday, you slam SUVs in your column. The next day, you promote one. It's nice to have it both ways. Next time, pay attention to the timing. A. Oh, to be me. In the Saturday column you refer to, I said that what makes SUVs dangerous are the people who think they are driving a high-performance car, and not a truck, and are, therefore, idiots. They have limitations and must be driven appropriately _ just as a driver in a 191-mile-per-hour Porsche twin turbo has an obligation to drive safely. My Sunday columns are reviews of vehicles and I approach them by asking myself: Who will buy this vehicle? What do they intend to do with it? Will it meet their needs? By saying that a particular car meets the needs of those who would buy it does not mean I am promoting it across the board. Would you want a restaurant critic who won't taste spicy foods, or won't eat meat? Q. After reading your article about the SUV situation and how dangerously people drive them, I have an idea. Why not require a special license to drive an SUV? A. The yahoos driving their SUVs dangerously already have a license and with it comes a demand that they obey existing traffic laws. If SUV drivers obeyed speed limits, that alone would cut down on crashes in a big way. At high speeds, SUVs don't change lanes, corner, or stop well. At the speed limit or lower, they would be relatively safe. No license will strip arrogance from a yahoo. Q. Regarding your Toyota Corolla review: Do the Corolla and GM Prizm come off the same assembly line? How identical are these two vehicles? A. Wade Hoyt from Toyota tells me that through 2002 models, they are the same car. With the new 2003 Corolla, the Toyota stands on its own and the Prizm disappears. They were built together under a joint GM/Toyota operation called New United Motor Manufacturing Inc. The end of the Prizm does not mean, however, the end of shared Corolla platforms for NUMMI. The 2003 Toyota Matrix and 2003 Pontiac Vibe _ crossover vechicles in front- and all-wheel-drive versions _ are built on the Corolla platform. Royal Ford can be reached at ford(at)globe.com. 
