Homicides in the San Fernando Valley for the first four months of 2002 have jumped nearly 70 percent over the same period in 2000, with a dozen slayings reported in April, officials said Tuesday. Los Angeles police reported gang violence accounted for 25 of the 39 homicides so far this year in the Valley, including eight of the 12 in April. There were a total of 23 homicides by this time in 2000. ``A lot of gang violence has been picking up again because disputes over drug territories is heating up,'' said Vince Bancroft, a homicide detective with the Los Angeles Police Department's North Hollywood Division. Gang activity had been lower in past years, but those days are slowly fading. ``Now they're getting back into this in-your-face-type shootings -- at a short distance, and multiple rounds. Thirty-eight caliber and 9 millimeter shells are popular,'' Bancroft said. The bloodshed was capped last week with the slaying of David Sanchez, 17, a Sylmar High School student who was stabbed in the chest Friday in a park at Astoria and Borden streets. ``He was stabbed right across the street from the high school,'' said the teen's father, Gonzalo Sanchez, 38, who lives with his wife and two daughters in Sylmar. ``We need more protection.'' Three juveniles and an adult -- all suspected of being gang members -- were arrested in the Sanchez case. Police also arrested three suspects in the April 5 drive-by shooting of Aaron Alejandro Flores, 20, of Winnetka, which they believe was in retaliation for the shooting death of Brandon Garmendez, 15. Ronnie Molina, 21, Alex Vasquez, 25, and Joel Vasquez, 20, are being held in lieu of $4 million bail each. Police also have made arrests in two cases in which gang violence was not involved. Michael Gabbert, 26, is in custody in the April 22 shooting death of a 26-year-old friend, Felipe Vasquez. And Jose Prieto, 22, was booked in the April 28 beating death of Jorge Acosta, a 47-year-old transient. Police often are frustrated with trying to solve the gang-related cases -- always among the toughest to crack. Few witnesses hang around, and gangsters rarely cooperate with the cops. ``The gang credo is, You do not cooperate with the police,'' Bancroft said. Foothill Division detectives are busy trying to solve 14 slayings that have occurred in their division since the beginning of the year, five of which occurred in April. ``We're obviously busy,'' Detective Ray Broker said during a break from interviewing Gabbert, who is one of the latest suspects in an April 22 slaying. Gabbert was arrested Tuesday in connection with the death of Vasquez. A friendship between the two had grown ugly in recent times, Broker said. Devonshire Division police were working Tuesday to solve nine homicides that have occurred in the division since Jan. 1, three more than during the comparable period in 2001. Only three of the cases are solved, and police have yet to find a body in one case -- that of a missing 14-year-old girl who might have been killed in February. No details were available on this case. 
