Under mounting pressure from Congress, the Bush administration signaled Thursday that the president might agree to set up an independent agency for homeland security. ``One of the answers to enhance the security of America is a potential reorganization of the executive branch,'' said Tom Ridge, director of the White House Office of Homeland Security, during a visit to Capitol Hill. He said that any action would include ``consultations'' with lawmakers. At the White House, spokesman Air Fleischer indicated that the administration might consider establishing a new agency for border and internal security. ``No decisions have been reached, but the administration is open-minded and will work with the Congress,'' he said. The White House has promised to unveil its detailed plan for homeland security by July 1. Ridge, who was visiting the Capitol building to give senators an informal security briefing, ran headlong into the push for giving his office more bureaucratic heft. As he was fielding questions in a ceremonial room, Sen. Joe Lieberman, D-Conn. and a bipartisan group of lawmakers from both houses were introducing legislation to establish a new ``Department of National Homeland Security.'' The proposed department, which would have cabinet rank, would coordinate federal activities for homeland and border security as well as become the central operations for responding to natural disasters. Ridge ``lacks the necessary authority to accomplish what needs to be done,'' Lieberman said. A cosponsor of the homeland security bill, Senate Intelligence Chairman Bob Graham, D-Fla., said that Ridge has been ``handicapped by a lack of statutory authority.'' He said the homeland security chief deserves an ``A'' for effort and an ``Incomplete'' for impact. Nearby, one part of the continuing controversy over Ridge's role flared up as Sen. Robert C. Byrd, chairing a Senate Appropriations Committee hearing, blasted the White House for refusing to allow Ridge to testify before the panel. ``Our nation's homeland defense is falling victim to bureaucratic turf battles,'' Byrd said. ``And the one person with the responsibility and the authority to cut through that conflict and to resolve those turf battles is gagged by his own administration.'' Byrd, a West Virginia Democrat, appeared to be especially angry that Ridge was holding an informal briefing for senators at about the same time as his hearing. ``Instead of allowing Director Ridge to testify, the administration would rather trivialize homeland security with these made-for-television stunts,'' Byrd said. Byrd has been complaining for weeks that Ridge, as a presidential adviser and not a Senate-confirmed agency head, cannot be compelled to testify to Congress. At Ridge's informal briefing, fewer than a dozen senators shuttled in and out of the session to ask questions about border issues, intelligence and high tech solutions. Among the participants, Sen. Debbie Stabenow, D-Mich., pointedly called the Ridge appearance a ``press conference.'' She told him that ``it doesn't take the place of coming before our committees.'' Julia Malone's e-mail address is juliam(at)coxnews.com Bob Deans contributed to this report endit Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
