Joseph Ungrue gets up at 5 a.m. twice a week to hit the driving range with his dad before school. The 11-year-old, who lives with his family in Reseda, started playing golf when he was 4. ``He loves it,'' said his mom, Bernadette Ungrue. ``In fact, he dropped baseball to play more golf.'' Ungrue started playing the sport at an early age. But how early is too early? Clint Airey, the head golf professional at Westlake Village Golf Course, believes 6 is the general age children can begin to understand the concept of golf but that it varies from child to child. ``At 4, all you're doing is entertaining. I think it's too early,'' Airey said. ``By the time he's 7 or 8, he's burned out and tired of that sport. Most kids don't have the attention span for it. ``I've seen tiny little guys out there swinging at the ball and they're having fun. I think 4 is too early, but I can't criticize anybody who's started early and is doing well.'' Ungrue has been playing for seven years and still has a passion for the sport. ``I learn more every day,'' he said. His sister, Allyssa, 8, recently started playing golf and has her own clubs. Ungrue doesn't mind the early wake-up calls, according to his mom. At least not for golf. ``He always looks forward to it,'' Bernadette said. ``When he knows he's coming to play golf, he gets up early. It's harder for him when he has to get up for school.'' James Pugliese, a teaching pro and founder of the Better Golf Academy for junior golfers at Lake Lindero Country Club in Agoura Hills, has worked with children for 23 years. He teaches a peewee clinic for children 5-7 and a junior clinic for ages 8-10. ``The kids seem to work better individually at a younger age like 5, 6 and 7,'' Pugliese said. ``However, when they reach 8, 9 and 10, they work better in groups with three or four other kids. They want to be with other kids. ``At 5, 6 and 7, their attention span is so limited that they need to work one on one. When you put them with other kids with limited attention spans, you get very little done.'' Pugliese has been working with Peter Griffith, who recently turned 5, for the past year. He said Griffith hits the ball 100 yards. Griffith even plays the course with Pugliese and his dad. ``It's unbelievable to see a kid that young who has the desire to swing a club and play golf,'' Pugliese said. ``He hits the ball solid. He's really good.'' Doug Haderle, who lives in Brentwood, took his son Brannen, 6, to play at Van Nuys Golf Course on Sunday. Haderle said Brannen became interested in golf when he was 3, after he went with his dad. The two don't often play because Brannen is involved in many activities -- including skiing, snowboarding, Rollerblading and surfing. ``That's the way I am and I think it makes him more well-rounded,'' Haderle said. ``When the parent focuses on one sport -- like with Tiger Woods -- they're concentrating on one sport because they want him to be the best. I don't think that's important.'' Woods, who grew up in Orange County, began playing at the age of 2, when he shot a 48 on a nine-hole course. But that's Woods. Ty Tyron, 17, recently became the youngest player to earn his PGA Tour card. Twins Aree and Naree Wongluekiet played in the Kraft Nabisco Championship, a major on the LPGA Tour, at age 13. ``I generally start them at around 7 or 8,'' Airey said. ``Unless they're a big 6-year-old, they could possibly do it. I think, personally, that a parent would have better luck starting kids at a more mature age when they're able to handle the situation and practice and swing the club. At 6 years old, it's pretty hard to swing the club. You're not learning a heck of a lot.'' -- Women-in-golf day: Women across the country can cash in on free golf lessons, clinics and other events May 18 for the Seventh Annual Women in Golf Day. The event is scheduled at more than 200 golf courses, including Knollwood Golf Course in Granada Hills, Spanish Hills Golf and Country Club in Camarillo, Simi Hills Golf Course, Wood Ranch Golf Club and Scholl Canyon Golf Course. The event is for women 14 and older. For a course sponsoring the event near you, visit the Web site www.americangolf.com. 
