SCIENCE SCAN (FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE) (Includes color illustration of Eomaia scansoria.) (ATTENTION EDITORS: This briefs column is for use by clients of The New York Times Syndicate's SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN NEWS SERVICE. For information about becoming a client of this service, contact the New York Times Syndicate sales representative listed at the end of the text.) c.2002 Scientific American CHINESE FOSSIL MAY BE MOTHER OF ALL PLACENTAL MAMMALS By KATE WONG 	Researchers have unearthed the fossilized remains of what may be the mother of all placental mammals, so named for the placenta that nourishes the young during gestation. 	The 125 million-year-old specimen is the earliest and most primitive known representative of the placental group, to which the vast majority of living mammals _ including humans _ belong. 	Unlike other placentals known from the Cretaceous period, which exhibit adaptations to life on the ground, the newly discovered creature has features typical of climbers. As such it indicates that early placentals were a surprisingly motley crew. 	Discovered in a quarry in northeastern China's Liaoning Province, the fossil _ dubbed Eomaia scansoria _ is also remarkable for its preservation: It's a nearly complete skeleton that includes fur impressions. 	Analysis of the creature's anatomy, conducted by Zhe-Xi Luo of the Carnegie Museum of Natural History (CMNH) in Pittsburgh and colleagues, revealed an agile, insect-eating beast with hands and feet built for grasping and branch-walking. 	``Our new study,'' says team member John Wible of the CMNH, ``shows that, in the Cretaceous, there was a far greater burst of diversity of extinct relatives of placentals than anyone had previously realized.'' SCIENTISTS CONCERNED ABOUT NUCLEAR WASTE AT YUCCA MOUNTAIN By GREG MONE 	Scientists are concerned about President Bush's plan to store high-level nuclear waste at Nevada's Yucca Mountain. The potential consequences of a leak leave little room for experimental error, say researchers writing in the current issue of the journal Science. 	Such a plan demands a much sharper analysis of geologic and atomic-scale processes than has been conducted thus far, say Rodney Ewing of the University of Michigan and Allison Macfarlane of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Plans should not advance until the relevant scientific issues have been thoroughly explored, they argue. 	The push to establish a repository at Yucca Mountain is based on political considerations and national security concerns, not hard science, Ewing and Macfarlane argue. They point to recent shifts in the design strategy to support their view. 	For example, the role of engineered barriers for the waste has increased. 	Originally, Yucca Mountain was selected because of its natural characteristics: a repository could be placed 300 meters above the water table and, presumably, kept dry. But subsequent research indicated that water may actually circulate upward through the mountain _ near the proposed waste storage area. 	The plan now depends on engineered barriers that would prevent water from carrying away radioactive material. 	``By lessening the importance of geologic barriers, the properties of the site become less important,'' the authors write. 	Other potential problems that need to be probed include the influence of climate change, the durability of the metallic waste packages and the impact of volcanic activity, the authors say. MANGANESE MAY HELP STOP HIV IN ITS TRACKS By GREG MONE 	Scientists may have uncovered a novel approach to HIV treatment, according to the results of a new study. 	Writing in the journal Molecular Cell, researchers report that increased levels of manganese in yeast cells slow the activity of a key enzyme, reverse transcriptase. In HIV, this change hampers the retrovirus's ability to generate copies of itself, effectively stalling its spread. 	The higher concentrations of manganese in the yeast cells stem from mutations in a gene called PMR1. Identification of the human equivalent of PMR1 and genetic regulation of manganese levels, the investigators say, could form the basis for a new method of fighting HIV. 	HIV is an especially difficult target because it adapts so readily, often becoming resistant to previously effective treatments. The recent results ``point to a never-before-proposed way to try to stop HIV in its tracks _ that simply manipulating concentrations of a metal, manganese, can have a profound effect,'' writes Jef Boeke and his colleagues at Johns Hopkins University. -0- 	For more information on the topics covered in the Scientific American News Service, visit www.sciam.com. (Distributed by New York Times Special Features) 	EDITOR: Visit The New York Times Syndicate Web site at http://www.nytimes.com/syndicate for more information on SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN NEWS SERVICE and other features. 	NONSUBSCRIBERS: To subscribe to SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN NEWS SERVICE, please contact New York Times Syndicate sales representative Ana Pena at 212-499-3333. 
