Faced with lower-than-expected tax revenues, the Treasury Department said Wednesday that the federal government would hit its legal borrowing limit in about two weeks, putting pressure on Congress to agree to increase the debt ceiling to avert a potential financial crisis. The department had previously said it expected to have enough cash on hand to carry the government into late June without bumping against the limit on borrowing. But after tallying most of April's tax receipts, it said Wednesday that it would face a cash crunch by the middle of this month and that resorting to financial gimmicks would extend the deadline only by a matter of weeks. Without an increase in the ceiling, the government would be unable to borrow to cover some of its debts, leaving it in default for the first time and potentially ruining its reputation as the world's most credit-worthy borrower. The problem with the debt limit is largely a technical issue that has more to do with how the government accounts for its obligation to pay Social Security benefits in the future than with its current financial strength, but it has become a political hot potato in Congress. Republicans, many of whom were elected on pledges to hold down the growth of government, are reluctant to cast an election-year vote to allow the government to borrow more than the current limit of $5.95 trillion. At the same time, Democrats have seized on the need for an increase in the limit as evidence that the tax cut pushed through Congress last year by President Bush was fiscally ruinous. ``No one wants the government to default on its responsibilities,'' said Rep. Charles Rangel of Manhattan, the ranking Democrat on the House Ways and Means Committee. ``But the people and their representatives have a right to know how the Bush administration plans to get the nation out of the fiscal mess before it authorizes a debt-ceiling increase.'' In the House, Republican leaders have not settled on a plan to bring the debt limit increase to a vote. They have signaled that their most likely course is to attach the measure to another piece of legislation that has broad bipartisan support, most likely a supplemental spending bill that would give the administration $27 billion for the military and domestic security. In the Senate, Democratic leaders say that they will wait for the House to make the first move and that they may approve an increase in the limit of less than the $750 billion sought by the White House. But they have said they are willing to vote on the measure without attaching it to unrelated legislation. Bush has repeatedly urged Congress not to play politics with the issue but has not offered Republicans enough political cover that they are willing to vote on it any sooner than they must. The Treasury Department brushed up against the debt limit last month but averted an immediate crisis by borrowing money temporarily from government retirement accounts. It said Wednesday that it would probably use the same technique this month if Congress did not resolve the issue but that doing so would keep the government solvent only until the second half of June. The government's finances have deteriorated in part because last year's recession, combined with the tax cut, cut more deeply into tax receipts than anticipated. Government and private budget analysts projected last week that the budget deficit for the current fiscal year would likely be more than $100 billion, twice what they had expected. 
