Stewart Borowsky lives in Brooklyn. He is a farmer. Seriously. While he is more likely to be awakened by a blaring car horn in his Park Slope apartment than a crowing rooster, Borowsky is pretty adamant about what he does for a living. ``I firmly and strongly believe that I am not only a farmer,'' said the wiry 35-year-old as he nibbled on a sunflower sprout at his farm on a recent morning. ``But I'm a good farmer.'' Amber waves of grain Borowsky's farm is not. Greener Pastures, the name of his business, may evoke bucolic images, but the ``farm'' is actually an old warehouse planted in the middle of auto body shops and tow yards on Sackett Street in an industrial section of South Brooklyn. Borowsky leased the 2,400-square-foot space, once used to store caskets, two years ago. With craft, intelligence and hard work, he transformed the dank red brick building into a wheat grass and sprout farm. ``I think we are doing something that is cutting-edge here,'' said Borowsky, who forsakes bib overalls for ripped jeans and a worn T-shirt. The growing popularity of community and backyard gardens and greenhouse projects in recent years has led to an appreciable expansion in urban agriculture. But Borowsky is part of a different breed of urban farmer; he is a commercial grower and he operates one of the only for-profit ``farms'' in New York City. Seizing upon the rising consumer demand for fresh, organic and locally grown food and an increase in the number of outlets such as farmer's markets to sell products, the Long Island native has found his niche selling wheat grass and other sprouts, including sunflower, buckwheat and pea, three days a week at the Greenmarket in Union Square. While most of the vendors working with Greenmarket, a program of the Council on the Environment of New York City, have more traditional farms in areas like upstate New York or New Jersey, Borowsky proudly touts his Brooklyn location. Complete with rolling steel garage doors and a loading dock, the building houses three grow rooms, a second-hand Tropicana refrigerated storage truck, a small yellow school bus and a green Old Town canoe. ``I pictured it a little bit differently, perhaps because the word 'farm' was used,'' said Jaclyn Iris, 24, an aspiring theater artist who began working with Borowsky in January. ``But it's good. It serves its purpose very well. I was most impressed by the ingenuity that went into it. It's very Stewart-crafty.'' Turning a warehouse into a farm was no easy project. Borowsky did most of the work himself, building the grow rooms and installing metal halide lights, automated misting sprinklers and climate control -- air-conditioners when it's too hot, space heaters when it's too cold. He hauls in about 1,000 pounds of a soil and compost mixture every week -- 25 bags, each weighing 40 pounds. Compared with the shadowy warehouse, the grow rooms are intensely lit -- 24 hours a day. A rich, organic smell competes with the building's musty odor. The first two rooms, each about 8 feet by 10 feet, are for the early growing stages. Flats and potters of varying sizes pack tables on either side of the room and a small aisle runs down the middle. In each planter a small foundation of a soil and compost mixture is laid, and a layer of seeds is then spread on top of the soil. The sprouts take about two weeks before they mature and are sold. In the third room, where the plants are stored until they are shipped to the market, 3-inch sprouts shine emerald against the whitewashed walls. Like small plots of finely manicured lawns, two rows of shelves are suspended terrace-like and filled with flats of grass. Before moving Greener Pastures to Brooklyn, Borowsky leased a more traditional farm in Monticello, N.Y. But he said making the trip to and from Union Square, which he has done for the past eight years, was taxing both personally and monetarily. ``I moved upstate to get away from all of this,'' he joked. Borowsky, who considers himself more of a country mouse, said that he was surprisingly happy in his new urban dwelling and that the business benefits from its proximity to the market. A short hop across the Manhattan Bridge, Borowsky transports his products in a little yellow school bus, which he's customized with wash sinks and shelving racks. ``It's also a great marketing tool,'' said Iris, who lamented that she was not allowed to drive the bus. The bus, which also serves as a backdrop to the Greener Pastures stand at Union Square, fits about 80 flats of wheat grass and sprouts. Iris said they go through about 50 flats of wheat grass a day for juice alone. Each tray produces about 10 ounces of juice, which sells for $1.50 an ounce or $2.75 for two ounces. Borowsky also sells the grass in potters and planters for people who either want to squeeze their own juice or decorate their homes or businesses. Sprouts sell for $9 a pound. ``I think what he is doing is brilliant,'' said John Nettleton, senior extension associate of the Cornell Cooperative Extension of New York City. ``He's a good example of somebody who is growing for a specific market and he is responding to a growing high-end market.'' According to Nettleton, demand for organic produce has increased 20 percent year-over-year for the past eight years. Nettleton and the extension are working with Borowsky to explore ideas to reduce his operating costs through energy grants. And while Borowsky can sound like a calculating entrepreneur when he speaks of offsetting increased production costs and cost per square foot, his philosophy on growing is anything but shrewd. ``You have to think like a plant,'' he said. ``You may think that sounds funny, but plants actually do have preferences. You have to tune yourself in to what the plant wants. That's why we don't need chemicals. If you treat the plant properly, it will respond.'' There is no doubt that Borowsky has found his niche, but whether he is truly a farmer may still be up for debate. ``I don't know if he is a farmer; he's more like a producer,'' Nettleton said. ``It's not like he's got a John Deere tractor that he's running through rows of wheat grass.'' But Borowsky relies on his own definition: ``Any business where a bug can come in and ruin you, that's farming.'' (EDITORS: There is no charge for use of this story, but please send a tearsheet to Professor Stephen D. Isaacs, Columbia News Service, Graduate School of Journalism, Columbia University, 2950 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10027.) 
