Stalled by an accounting inquiry that may force it to rework its most recent financial statements, the Kmart Corp. asked the government on Wednesday for more time to complete its annual report. The report, which was due Tuesday, will include Kmart's financial results for its fiscal 2001, the year that ended a few days after the company became the largest American retailer to file for bankruptcy. The company said it expected losses for last year to exceed the $244 million that it lost in 2000. The losses, while unspecified, were described by Kmart as ``significantly higher.'' The company asked the Securities and Exchange Commission for an extension until May 15. The inquiry, which Kmart executives began after receiving an anonymous letter in January, focuses on the company's accounting, while its review of possible changes to its accounting covers payments flowing between it and its vendors as well as Kmart's general liability reserves. By delaying the filing of the annual report, Kmart seemed to indicate that the investigation, now overseen by the SEC, was near its conclusion. No details of the inquiry have been made public, and a Kmart spokeswoman said Wednesday that she could not provide any because the case was still unfolding. The company is considering whether to restate its quarterly financial statements for all of last year, Kmart's statement said, because of ``a possible change in accounting methodology.'' The delay will also provide time to complete the 2001 audit. The accounting inquiry began with a letter that a Kmart spokesman called ``unsigned and very vague'' at the time. He added, however, ``it did raise questions about accounting, and we take that very seriously.'' On Wednesday the company said that its management team, on the job for less than two months, needed to ``complete its review of Kmart's accounting policies and methods'' before issuing the annual report. Vendors had begun complaining last summer about what they said were Kmart's heavy-handed demands for more favorable payment terms and other concessions often in the form of cash. The demands were seen as a sign of cash-flow problems at the company, long before Kmart executives acknowledged that they were facing financial difficulties. As one of the country's three largest discount chains, Kmart is a huge account for many manufacturers of goods ranging from children's clothes to plastic wrap. Vendors are anxious to be paid the money they were owed when Kmart declared bankruptcy on Jan. 22, nine days before the end of its fiscal year. Efforts to reach vendors and others involved in the Kmart bankruptcy were unsuccessful on Wednesday. Since filing for Chapter 11, Kmart's chief executive, Charles C. Conaway, has left the company. James B. Adamson, a longtime Kmart board member who is known as a turnaround specialist, succeeded him in January. Adamson has said he wants Kmart to emerge from bankruptcy by July of next year. He has announced plans to close 243 stores and to lay off 22,000 workers across the country as part of reorganizing Kmart. 
