These are the stories the San Francisco Chronicle's Business section plans to move on the New York Times wire for publication Saturday, Dec. 22, or thereafter. Also on the budget are advance stories for publication Sunday and Monday. Questions? Call wire editor John Batteiger at (415) 536-3031 or the Business copy desk at (415) 536-5172. 	ADS _ Toward the end of the 1998 baseball season, David Hoch and Joseph Marble of Minneapolis, driving an orange-and-red VW van, embarked on a 10-day swing through five cities with new ballparks. They made a documentary of the journey, and it was deja vu this summer when Hoch and Marble saw TV commercials for MasterCard: two guys cruising the country seeing baseball games, driving an orange-and-red VW van. They're suing. By GEORGE RAINE. 	VENTURE _ 2001 will be remembered as the Year of Triage in the venture capital world. VC investment in startup companies fell by nearly two-thirds in 2001, compared with 2000, to $35.3 billion, according to a preliminary tally by VentureWire. By CAROL EMERT. 	STORIES FOR PUBLICATION SUNDAY, DEC. 23: 	LAYOFFS _ The everyday effects and challenges of losing your job, told through the experiences of three people who worked in different economic sectors. By CAROLYN SAID. 	WINE _ Consumers have at least one thing to cheer about this holiday season: Wine prices are coming down for a change. Faced with excess supply, a dreary economy and an increasingly penny-pinching public, wineries are corking their impulse to charge more and offering unprecedented discounts to wholesalers and retailers who sell their product. By PETER SINTON. 	NETWORTH _ Net Worth column: Investing a significant portion of your assets in a single stock is never a good idea, especially if the stock is your employer's _ if the company goes bust, you lose your job and a good chunk of your life savings. That's the first rule of investing, but it's lost on vast numbers of Americans and American companies _ and not just Enron. By KATHLEEN PENDER. 	MONEYBAG _ Moneybag column: Financial question-and-answer column. By ARTHUR LOUIS. 	LAZARUS _ Lazarus at Large column: Can't say I was all that heartbroken to see the Republicans' feed-the-rich ``stimulus plan'' hit a brick wall in the Senate late last week. But lost in the shuffle of the economic stimulus debate is the fact that the Bush administration says the federal government once again will be spending money it doesn't have for the remainder of George W's term. By DAVID LAZARUS. 	ONLINE _ Online Guide column: Christmas is two days away and you haven't mailed a single holiday card or out-of-town present. You are so late that you can reasonably expect to find your picture in the dictionary alongside a definition of procrastinator. What do you? Fire up the computer and go online, of course. By JOHN BATTEIGER. 	STORIES FOR PUBLICATION MONDAY, DEC. 24: 	BIOTECH _ America's anthrax scare provided a rare boost to the biotech industry during a year that was mostly dismal for the sector. A year-end look at the biotech industry. By TOM ABATE. 	BIOSCOPE _ Bioscope column: Hyseq, a gene discovery firm, is trying to reinvent itself into a drug development company. By TOM ABATE. 	TECH21 _ Tech21 column: Despite record-low prices, substantial rebates and tons of tossed-in freebies, a lot fewer PCs will show up under the tree tomorrow than in recent Christmases past. By HENRY NORR. 	LAZARUS _ Lazarus at Large column: Gary Morrell has had the strange experience of co-founding a tech company, selling it for millions, earning just thousands, then buying the company back for thousands more. Today, Morrell and his business partner are back where they started almost a decade ago: ``A little bit poorer, a little bit wiser. And much, much happier.'' The story of Berkeley's LMi.net is a cautionary tale of everything that's right about entrepreneurs and everything that was wrong about the dot-com business culture. That this particular story has a happy ending is only a fluke. By DAVID LAZARUS. 
