Thursday, May 2, 2002 	Editors: 	The Hearst News Service will file the following for Friday. If you have questions, please call Tim Spence at 202-298-6920. 	(``HNS'' appears in all sluglines.) 	ENTERTAINMENT (``e'' category) 	MUSIC-RODGERS (Undated) _ The sweetest sounds that millions of people have ever heard originated in Richard Rodgers' head, courtesy of his gift for gorgeous melody. In the 60-year career that lay between, Rodgers composed 40 musicals and more than 900 songs. By any standard _ longevity, awards, critical acclaim, enduring popular appeal _ he is the most successful and influential composer in the history of American musical theater. By EVERETT EVANS. 	DIGITAL-TV (Houston) _ The Digital TV revolution is a dud. Less than one-quarter of the TV networks required to meet Wednesday's deadline to broadcast a digital signal have done so. On the positive side, the FCC official charged with overseeing the transition says the process is well ahead of other technology revolutions, including color TV and the VCR. Nevertheless, uncertainty continues to hamper the changeover to digital TV and its promise of considerably better picture and sound. By ERIC BERGER. 	FILM-HOLLYWOOD-REVIEW (Undated) _ A funny thing happened to Woody Allen on the way to old age: He got funny again. With ``Hollywood Ending,'' he's made three solid comedies in a row, each a light lark with no hint of morose self-reflection. Well, almost none. By BRUCE WESTBROOK. 	FILM-ALLEN (Austin, Texas) _ First the Academy Awards show. Next the Cannes Film Festival. Now Texas. Is Woody Allen ditching his Manhattan myopia and reclusive posture to open up to the world? It is rare for Allen, 66, to leave his beloved New York. But he is leaving New York long enough to promote his new movie, ``Hollywood Ending.'' By BRUCE WESTBROOK. 	FILM-SUMMER-REVIEW (Undated) _ Miramax Films changed the name of its new movie, ``Stolen Summer,'' to the clunky moniker ``The Project Greenlight Movie: Stolen Summer.'' That is because the company wants to capitalize on the mileage it got out of a remarkable HBO series about the behind-the-scenes struggle to get the movie made. If only this tender family film were half as interesting as the series. By ERIC HARRISON. 	FILM-TROUBLE-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``Trouble Every Day'' is an enigmatic new film from French director Claire Denis. By ERIC HARRISON. 	FILM-SOMEBODY-REVIEW (Undated) _ Shot for under $5,000, ``Some Body'' has a reality and honesty missing in most movies, as it tells a cautionary tale of a young woman adrift in a singles scenes of indiscriminate sexuality and drug use. Raw and real, it's not for all tastes, but the narrative is truthful and persuasive. By BRUCE WESTBROOK. 	FILM-DOGTOWN-REVIEW (Undated) _ Despite its faults, the skateboarding movie ``Dogtown and Z-Boys'' is a fascinating look at a subculture. By ERIC HARRISON. 	BOOK-REVIEW-TERROR (Undated) _ President Bush touched a raw nerve last September when he called for a ``crusade'' against terrorism and quickly moved to reassure Muslims that he did not mean any offense by using a word that brings harsh memories of the Christian crusades 10 centuries ago. The president's word choice raises a historical lesson that is worth remembering as the United States wages a war on terrorism. That point, as the best-selling novelist Caleb Carr notes in his new book, ``The Lessons of Terror,'' is that the use of indiscriminate violence against civilians did not begin with Osama bin Laden or the Hamas suicide bombers in Israel: it has existed since the Christian Crusades against Islam and well before that with Roman conquerors. By TIMOTHY SPENCE. 	LIFESTYLE/FEATURES (``l'' category) 	SHOPPING-CARTS (Houston) _ Exercise equipment, barbecue pit and basketball hoop. It is amazing the uses people come up with for shopping carts ``borrowed'' from supermarkets, department stores and pharmacies. Lost carts cause retailers $800 million in losses globally. There is so much money to be made off the buggies that there are theft rings that target them for sale overseas. By JANETTE RODRIGUES. 	CHRONIC-ILLNESS (Undated) _ Nearly half of the American population suffers from a chronic illness _ fibromyalgia, CFS, diabetes, multiple sclerosis, lupus, rheumatoid arthritis and others _ according to the Journal of American Medicine. And that percentage is growing fast, especially with the aging baby boomer population, say experts. ``We need to have skills that prepare us for living with chronic illnesses. But we have a serious medical and cultural lag _ no training _ we are not prepared,'' says health-care executive Patricia Fennell. By LYRYSA SMITH. 	FOOD (``d'' category) 	DORM-COOKING (Schenectady, N.Y.) _ Derek McCowan lives in an apartment with a fully furnished kitchen, which until two months ago was about as familiar to him as the inside of a spaceship. Today the Union College senior likes to impress his girlfriend with baked stuffed shrimp and a trifle for dessert, dishes he learned to prepare during a noncredit course. Call it Life Skills 101. And the final exam is very popular. By DOUG BLACKBURN. 	MARGARITAS (Undated) _ Although no bartender worth his shot glass will touch commerical margarita mixes, you can use them and make hosting a Cinco de Mayo (Fifth of May) celebration easy. As we recently discovered during an informal tasting, there is at least one good margarita mix on store shelves. But be careful, there are many more mediocre ones. By RUTH FANTASIA. 	SPORTS (``s'' category) 	RAC-KENTUCKY-DERBY (Undated) _ Recent editions of the Kentucky Derby have tossed traditional trends to the wind, but it's important to note that a few things rarely seem to change: Horses on the lead usually are doomed, closers have the advantage and betting the favorite is like adding Enron to your stock portfolio. By MATT GRAVES. 	COMMENTARY (``k'' category) 	FOOD-SAFETY (Undated) _ Long before the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, securing the nation's food supply has been a top priority for people who produce and regulate food. Because most of our food is produced in the open, protecting crops and animals from intentional contamination or infection by a determined person is a constant challenge. Agro-terrorism is not just a problem for farmers. It poses potential health and economic threats to everyone. By RICHARD C. ATKINSON. 	BOTOX-CRAZE (Undated) _ Since the FDA approved the use of Botox for cosmetic purposes last month, some commentators have decried the pressure to look young by using a product that essentially erases all expression from the face through paralysis. But I think they're being shortsighted. Some people might think using one of the most potent neurotoxins as a cosmetic procedure is crazy. Then again, imagine the possibilities. Just think of the many advantages of being able to hide your expression without effort. By DOTTY LeMIEUX. 
