(EDS: Eliminates two stories, NY-TOUR-GUIDES and PRISON-DEACON) 	EDS: Columbia News Service provides feature articles for your use as desired. CNS articles are transmitted courtesy of the New York Times Syndicate/New York Times News Service. Some articles have photos, which are downloadable from a Columbia University Web site:  http://www.jrn.columbia.edu/studentwork/cns/2002-04-30/syndication/.  There is no cost to News Service or Syndicate clients for the articles, photos or downloads. 	The articles are slugged BC-CNS-KEYWORD and move in the ``l'' news category. They are written by master's degree candidates at the Graduate School of Journalism at Columbia University and edited by adjunct professors who work at The New York Times, The Daily News, Newsday and The New York Post, among other places. 	All we ask is that you send us a tearsheet: 	Columbia News Service 	Graduate School of Journalism 	Columbia University 	2950 Broadway 	New York, N.Y. 10027 	Professor Stephen D. Isaacs 	Columbia News Service 	E-mail:sdi1(at)columbia.edu 	This week's articles: 	BC-CNS-STEVE-MADDEN-CRIME (New York) _ The flagship Steve Madden store on West 34th Street in Manhattan was filled with young consumers eager to purchase a pair of trendy new bowling shoes. Others were spending their hard-earned money from after-school jobs on height-enhancing heels. But none of Steve Madden's customers were aware of his recent conviction or sentencing for securities fraud and money laundering, nor did anyone seem to care. By Alexandra Polier. 	BC-CNS-STROKE-ROBOT (New York) _ Last summer, Peters, 59, who lives in Arlington, Massachusetts, joined a research study at Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital in Boston, and worked for eight weeks with the robot made by engineers from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The robot resembles a mechanical limb, and, attached to a table, guides the patient's arm in repetitive motions, much like an occupational therapist would. Patients, like Peters, are regaining motion at a time when some experts thought hope was lost. By Rachel Rabkin. 	BC-CNS-TODAY-SHOW-FANS (New York) _ Everyone wants to get on television. That's why ``Today,'' NBC's top-rated morning show, has become one of New York's most popular tourist destinations. Hundreds of people from all over the country come to New York, rise at ungodly hours, brave inclement weather and test the bounds of sanity to mug for the cameras and wave to friends and family back home. By Cristina Cardoze. 	With photo, available after 5/3. 	BC-CNS-LP-COLLECTORS (New York) _ Vinyl is alive and well and living at Mooncurser Records in the Bronx. The newest records in the store are close to 20 years old, and range from Tito Puente to Elvis Presley. Over the last 28 years, Roger Roberge has scavenged for 45s and 78s, and his collection has swollen to roughly 100,000 titles. With no CDs or cassettes available, one might assume the white-bearded Roberge, 81, is just trapped in the past. But due to a resurgence of interest in vinyl records sweeping New York and beyond, Roberge now seems to be on the cutting edge. By Joshua Partlow. 	With photo. 	BC-CNS-GOOD-HACKERS (New York) _ In cyberhacking, it is a matter of black and white. White hat hackers find security weaknesses in different companies' software. If the white hats move fast enough, system vulnerabilities can be discovered and corrected before any black hat hackers come along. Black hats steal credit card numbers of consumers and identities of consumers and can cost companies millions in losses. By Jen Farley. 	BC-CNS-U.S.-CANADA-MERGER (New York) _ In the last few years, Web sites and discussion groups have materialized to advocate a full union of the United States and Canada. For decades, individuals and groups saw such a political arrangement between the two nations as advantageous, attainable and inevitable. But a union of the two countries has not been encouraged on either side of the border. By Syd Steinhardt. 	With photo. 	BC-CNS-BEAD-JEWELRY (New York) _ The first necklace Allison Ferris made was from several pieces of her mother's macaroni. Today she's working with more sophisticated materials like Jet Czech crystal, amethyst and carnelian. Given the popularity of beads on clothes and accessories, homemade jewelry making is becoming not just a hobby but an outlet for earning a second income and, in some cases, an alternate career. By Paulina Krycinski. 	With photo. 	BC-CNS-BROOKLYN-CANOEISTS (New York) _ A tough band of paddlers brave Brooklyn's Gowanus Canal, a fetid stew of human waste, used condoms, foam cups, rusted shopping carts and several decades of contaminated sludge. By Jean Gordon. 	With photo. 	BC-CNS-DUTCH-CANDY (New York) _ Drop, Dutch licorice candy, is a national addiction in the Netherlands, a country that consumes more candy per year than any other. From sneaking bags of it in suitcases to eating it at the theater, it's the one thing the Dutch can't live without, especially those living abroad. By Tiffany Aron. 	BC-CNS-CROSS-DRESSER-STORES (New York) _ As long as there has been women's clothing, there have been men who have wanted to wear it. But until recently, only fetish shops catered to cross-dressers. Now, a growing number of women's clothing stores are trying to make it just as easy for men to buy themselves smart dresses as it is for their wives. By David Scheer. 	BC-CNS-CAT-TOILET-TRAINING (New York) _ Two years ago, Elizabeth Farmer threw out her cats' litter box. After months of hard work and occasional accidents, Samson, her 9 year-old white Persian, and Gigi, her 11-year-old Himalayan, had finally learned to use the toilet. Farmer purchased a kitty toilet training kit from a Web site that sells novelty items for cats. By Liz Sadler. 	With photo. 	BC-CNS-FIREFIGHTING-CHIRP (New York) _ High-pitched sounds emanate from the back of fire trucks, lasting four or five seconds. The soprano-like shrills break down into rolling pulsating reverberations that fade out. One could mistake the noise for the chirping of red-winged blackbirds in the trees that line a cemetery across the street. But the noise is from a test of a warning device that can save firefighters' lives by alerting them to different dangerous situations. By Bryan McShane. 	With photo. 	BC-CNS-CRASH-TESTS (New York) _ Ten years ago, car safety was all about antilock brakes and airbags. These days, it's about crumple zones and side-impact door beams. Car makers are only too happy to boast in their advertising when one of their models gets the federal government's five-star rating for crash protection. But a vehicle's performance in the government's crash tests doesn't necessarily reflect how it will perform in other crash scenarios. By Douglas Quan. 	BC-CNS-CRYSTAL-MOTORCYCLES (New York) _ Swarovski, the world's largest crystal company, is attracting attention by finding unconventional uses for its glittering stones. It has enlisted designers to create original items, including motorcycles, clothing and home decor. By Elizabeth Uhlin. 	With photo. 	BC-CNS-BROOKLYN-CYCLONES (New York) _ Residents in southern Brooklyn are hoping that the success and popularity of their minor league baseball team, the Cyclones, translates into the revitalization of Coney Island. By James Ramage. 	BC-CNS-NY-DOLL-HOSPITAL (New York) _ The New York Doll Hospital has been performing operations ranging from transplants to face-lifts since 1900. In the last half-century, chief surgeon Irving Chais has treated thousands of patients, including survivors of the Civil War, World War II and the war on terror. By Cindy Schreiber. 	With photo. 	BC-CNS-ALPACA-FARMING (New York) _ Ed Boyd is part of a steadily growing number of farmers in the United States who are raising alpacas, a domesticated cousin of the South American camel and llama, for profit. Their luxurious fleece, softer than cashmere and lighter than wool, commands top prices and is highly coveted in the fashion world and among textile manufacturers. By Alison Damast. 	With photo. 	BC-CNS-AEROBIC-STRIPPING (New York) _ Erotic aerobics is a new offering at Tower Fitness and a class increasingly making its way into aerobics schedules at gyms across the country. By Henry Naccari. 	BC-CNS-INTERRACIAL-DATING (New York) _ New Yorkers who date people from other races and culture find that acceptance -- even in the great melting pot -- is more myth than reality. By Elizabeth Goldhirsh. 	BC-CNS-BROOKLYN-FARMER (New York) _ Amber waves of grain, Stewart Borowsky's farm is not. Greener Pastures, the name of his business, may evoke bucolic images, but the ``farm'' is actually an old warehouse planted in the middle of auto body shops and tow yards on Sackett Street in an industrial section of South Brooklyn. Formerly used for casket storage, Borowsky leased the 2,400-square-foot space two years ago and with a bit of craftiness, he cultivated the dank red brick building into a wheat grass and sprout farm. By Darren Foster. 	With photo. 	BC-CNS-STAR-WARS-SWORDFIGHTING (New York) _ Already growing in popularity outside of Japan, kendo has drawn the interest of an increasing number of Americans because of the ``Star Wars'' franchise, which features many of its swordfighting techniques. By Ryan Teague Beckwith. 	With photo. 	BC-CNS-FLAG-AUCTION (New York) _ Americans responded to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks with an outpouring of patriotic expression, including widespread display of the American flag. But few of those flags look like Tom Connelly's. His collection, including 76 being brought to auction by Sotheby's on May 23, fundamentally views the flags, in all their variations, as works of art. By James Dean. 	With photo. 	BC-CNS-SKELETON-STORE (New York) _ A Manhattan store sells everything you would need to start your own Natural History Museum -- from mammoth hair to butterflies. From the back, the owner boils and rebuilds skeletons and cleans up fossils. Even without a college degree, he has become a major supplier for museums and scientists. By J.A. Brown. 	With photo. 	BC-CNS-TOXIC-MOLD (New York) _ Two months after Sharon Carsten started working, she came down with flu-like symptoms. Although her husband hadn't heard of the toxic mold syndrome or ``sick'' buildings, he said he knew instinctively that his wife's illness was somehow related to an air-conditioning vent at her office. Sharon sat under that vent every day for two months and inhaled whatever toxins spewed forth. By David Simon. 	BC-CNS-NY-MOUNTED-PATROL (New York) _ The Mounted Police unit of the New York Police Department has a tight-knit culture and a venerable history. The unit's officers and its civilian staff are like a family of horse lovers, taking great pride in its traditions. Many officers are second-generation riders. James Carey, an avid equestrian and country music fan, takes care of their horses. By Emily Fancher. 	With photo. 	BC-CNS-URBAN-PARKS-DROUGHT (New York) _ The severe drought afflicting the East Coast and the West has done more than deplete reservoirs and put a kibosh on sprinklers. Withering weather is also forcing city park stewards to rethink spring planting into two categories: plants that can make it and plants that will die of thirst. By John Fritze. 	BC-CNS-PAYPHONE-DISAPPEAR (New York) _ For Mark Thomas, pay phones are more than just a convenience in an emergency. They offer the possibility of spontaneous, random connection, and he's determined to share his passion for them. Thomas is the self-appointed poet of the pay phone. He runs the Payphone Project, a Web site devoted to documenting the slow demise of this ``cultural landmark.'' By Daniel Barrick. 	With photo. 	BC-CNS-NY-SALSA-DANCING (New York) _ Salsa is king on any given Wednesday evening at Nell's, a 14th Street nightspot. But on any night of the week, this high-energy music fills dance halls throughout New York City. In recent years, salsa music has captured a worldwide following of dance-crazed salseros. By Aetna Smith. 	With photo. 	BC-CNS-PENIS-ENLARGEMENT (New York) _ Men around the country have filed a flurry of lawsuits against doctors they say botched their penis enlargement procedures, leaving them disfigured and in pain, and often with penises smaller than they started with. The Food and Drug Administration has received complaints about loosely regulated herbal supplements that promise increased size but don't deliver. And yet Internet message boards are filled with postings from men all asking the same question: Can the penis be made bigger, and if so, which way is best? By Jeff Ventura. 
