Maybe it was only an accident that Gary Roberts of the Toronto Maple Leafs crashed into goalie Chris Osgood of the New York Islanders Tuesday night and left him flat on his back for a few minutes of pain after Roberts tied the score in the first period. And it could have been another accident when Roberts _ undeterred by a black eye or blue Islanders jerseys around him _ rumbled through the crease a few minutes later, knocking over both Osgood and defenseman Roman Hamrlik, who limped off to the dressing room with a minor injury. No doubt, it was another unavoidable mishap in the third period when Roberts slid into Osgood and upended him again. These things happen, and these deeds send signals. At the other end of the ice, where an untrammeled Curtis Joseph guarded the Maple Leafs' net, no Islanders delivered similar messages. For much of the game, until the third period, really, the Islanders appeared unwilling to carry the puck while skating or to even touch it while standing still in Air Canada Center. For these and other reasons, the Maple Leafs took a 4-2 victory in Game 7 of the Eastern Conference quarterfinals. Toronto will move on to face Ottawa in the second round of a four-round tournament. The Islanders, after a season of impressive improvement and a playoff round that was exciting and vicious, can ponder how much they still lack before they can contemplate a serious challenge for the Stanley Cup. Maybe, next season, they will not look so intimidated on the road, where they lost all four games this round. ``Same problem for Toronto,'' said Alexei Yashin of the Islanders, who pointed out that the Leafs lost all three games on Long Island. Yashin's effort may provide reason for optimism. He scored another goal Tuesday night and put five shots on Joseph. Criticized as a poor playoff performer when in Ottawa, Yashin got better every game in this series despite the shadowing of Shayne Corson for the first six games. Coach Peter Laviolette of the Islanders said Yashin ``was our best player.'' But not all of his teammates were effective Tuesday night. They kept turning over the puck, often with unforced errors. One of the most egregious came early in the game, when defenseman Yevgeny Korolev was behind his own net. Tie Domi, a Toronto toughie, skated toward him. Korolev pulled away, accidentally leaving the puck behind. No collision was necessary. Unlike in previous games, the Leafs did not seriously injure an Islander on Tuesday night or even kick one during a fight. They simply seemed more determined. And they are likely to continue their intimidating ways when they face the Senators, who are considered soft. The Toronto-Ottawa match is only part of an Eastern Conference setup that will bring delight to Canadian fans. In the other bracket, the Montreal Canadiens will play Carolina. Although the three Canadian cities are closely grouped, their teams and cultures have personalities that are delightfully distinct. Montreal, once an NHL dynasty, is now the spunky underdog, an eighth-seeded team that upset the Boston Bruins. It represents the heart of French-speaking Canada. Toronto, without a Stanley Cup since 1967, is a team of scrappy street-fighters in a city representing the heart of English-speaking Canada. The Ottawa team has the most talent of the three _ slick and skilled and loaded with European flair, representing the resolutely bilingual and cosmopolitan capital of the nation. Unless the Hurricanes mess things up, Canada will have a team in the finals for the first time since 1994, when the Rangers defeated the Vancouver Canucks. Travis Green, who scored for the Leafs on Tuesday night, referred to anxiety in his country over a perceived decline in the sport. ``In the last 10 years, everybody knows the situation,'' said Green, who is from Castlegar, British Columbia. But things have changed lately. In men's and women's hockey, Canada won the Olympic gold medal over the United States. Is this Canada's year? ``Let's hope so,'' Green said. A few hours before Tuesday night's game, a Canadian sports channel showed a live telecast of Canada defeating the United States, 2-1, in the world championships in Sweden. During a timeout, a beer commercial showed two guys in a bar, talking with American accents. A third fellow walked up and ordered a Molson Canadian beer. `` Mr. Canadian! Mr. Canuck!'' the Americans said, laughing. ``Where's your pet beaver?'' The Canadian calmly reached down and lifted his furry pet onto the bar, where it showed its teeth and attacked one of the Yanks. The commercial ended with the slogan: ``I am Canadian!'' The same message came across more tastefully before Tuesday night's game. When the fully clothed male rock band called Barenaked Ladies came out on a carpet to sing the national anthems, the announcer urged the fans to respond ``with Canadian respectfulness and pride'' to both songs because fans on both sides of the border have been booing each other's anthems in hockey and in basketball. But not here, not Tuesday night. They cheered ``The Star-Spangled Banner,'' and they cheered even more for ``O Canada.'' Alyn McCauley, a Leaf from Brockville, Ontario, said both moments ``made me very proud to be a Canadian.'' Late in the game, the fans stood during a timeout and clapped and sang along to ``The Good Old Hockey Game,'' which might as well be the backup national anthem. They know their sport here and they appreciate the heck out of it. The three teams from the New York area are finished, but Canada has three left to cheer. This is their reward. They deserve it. They are Canadian. 
