Spirited parades, colorful Ballet Folklorico troupes, authentic Mexican food and good Latin music are the hallmarks of Cinco de Mayo celebrations in the United States. Organizers are quick to tout their vendor booths, children's games, entertainment lineup and major corporate sponsors. What tends to get lost in the revelry is the history behind the celebration, historians say. Indeed, many of the people who turn out by the hundreds for Cinco de Mayo events have no idea what they are celebrating, said Patrick Foley, a recently retired professor of history at the Northwest Campus of Tarrant County College. ``You would be surprised at how many people think it's Mexican Independence Day,'' said Foley, whose wife is Mexican-American. Cinco de Mayo commemorates the famous battle of Puebla, Mexico, on May 5, 1862, when Mexican President Benito Juarez' inferior army routed the invading and well-armed French troops. The victory, though noteworthy, pales in comparison to Dieciseis de Septiembre, which celebrates Sept. 16, 1810. That's the day that Father Miguel Hidalgo led an uprising known as ``Grito de Dolores,'' which launched Mexico into an 11-year war against Spain. Mexico gained its independence in 1821. The irony is that Cinco de Mayo events are much more popular and widespread than Dieciseis de Septiembre celebrations. In addition, Cinco de Mayo is celebrated more vigorously in the United States than in Mexico. Marcos Rincon, producer of a daylong Cowtown Cinco de Mayo festival on Sunday, said the holiday has evolved into more of an opportunity for companies to reach out to the nation's fast-growing Hispanic population. An estimated 36 million Hispanics live in the United States, representing about $500 billon a year in purchasing power, said Maria Ibanez, a spokeswoman with the Washington-based U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce. The Latino population grew by 58 percent during the past decade. Many businesses sponsor Cinco de Mayo events in their localities. ``Our message isn't so much about the battle that was fought,'' Rincon said. ``We're doing this to celebrate Hispanic culture. The history is not the main point of these celebrations anymore.'' That's precisely why Francisco Hernandez Sr., will not be attending any local Cinco de Mayo events. ``I think the events here need a little more substance,'' said Hernandez, 65, whose son, Juan Hernandez, is a special adviser to Mexican President Vicente Fox. ``Here people sign up for credit cards and get free T-Shirts.'' The celebration has much more historical significance in Mexico, Hernandez said. ``There's a lot less entertainment and more re-enactments of the victory.'' The commercialization of Cinco de Mayo in the United States is merely a sign of the times, said Jose Angel Gutierrez, a political science professor at the University of Texas at Arlington. It shows that corporate America finally recognizes the buying power and viability of Hispanics, he said. ``I don't know how you can stop it, and I don't know that you should,'' Gutierrez said. ``It's a very effective way to reach masses of people. And the people who attend these fiestas come out of them knowing a few things.'' (Visit the Star-Telegram's online services on the World Wide Web: www.star-telegram.com) nn 
