City officials said Thursday that more needs to be done to improve security and evacuation procedures in Los Angeles' high-rises following the release of a new report about potential sites for terrorist attacks. Los Angeles International Airport and the harbor remain the most vulnerable to terrorist acts, but the Rand Corp. report said the high-rise buildings -- though not likely to be primary targets -- could be subject to bombings or other attacks. Standing in a Dodger Stadium parking lot overlooking downtown high rises, City Attorney Rocky Delgadillo and Councilman Jack Weiss announced plans to push for a law mandating twice-yearly evacuation drills at all high rises in the city, as well as improved evacuation procedures. ``What we learned ... is that although we cannot always prevent an act of terrorism, if we are prepared, many lives can be saved,'' Delgadillo said, adding that precautions taken at the World Trade Center saved the lives of most people below the point where airplanes hit the buildings. While the Rand study, requested after the Sept. 11 attacks, said it was unlikely a Los Angeles high-rise would be a primary target, it noted the threat of potential terrorism was real. There are 800 buildings in Los Angeles higher than 75 feet and most have already taken steps to increase surveillance and limit access by requiring photo I.D.s and other procedures. Rand researcher Rae Archibald said Los Angeles is in better shape than most cities because of preparations made in the past due to earthquakes, riots and other incidents. ``While we don't want to create a bunker mentality, we do feel people need to be made constantly aware of the potential threat,'' said Archibald, who headed the Rand team. Delgadillo said security at LAX and the port have been beefed up to deal with potential threats, but the city needs to look at other possible targets. Weiss said he has worked with the owners of buildings in Century City, which is part of his district, to develop new evacuation plans, create floor wardens and improve communication with tenants to deal with emergencies. ``We want to make high-rises safer, not just for the people who work in them, but everyone in Southern California,'' Weiss said. Under the proposal, the buildings would be required to conduct the drills and to update their evacuation plans twice a year. Failure to comply would be a misdemeanor. Delgadillo said the Los Angeles Fire Department would need to hire additional inspectors, at an annual cost estimated at up to $300,000. Weiss asked for a report on the costs during a Budget and Finance Committee hearing. The Rand team suggested the city create a special fund to look at security issues. Delgadillo, however, said he wanted further study before advancing such a proposal. The study also was backed by the Building Owners and Management Association, which helped finance the study. ``We have been holding seminars to get the best possible information to our members,'' BOMA Executive Director Barbara Harris said. ``What we think is needed is to look at this on a building-by-building basis to develop the best plans.'' The study did not look at structural issues of high-rises, Archibald said, since that is being done by federal investigators.  XXX 
