Here are the top Times Express stories planned for Friday, May 3. The night supervisor for The New York Times News Service is Pat Ryan; phone: 888-346-9867; e-mail: patryan(at)nytimes.com. 	EXP-MIDEAST-TALKS (Washington) _ Secretary of State Colin Powell said Thursday that preparations were under way for a Middle East conference to take place this summer, but no venue or precise date had yet been set. Powell made the stement after a meeting of the ``quartet'' in Washington _ formed last month and grouping the United States, the United Nations, Russia and the European Union to coordinate Israeli-Palestinian mediation efforts.. (Summary from wires) (Staff byline TK) 	EXP-MIDEAST-CONGRESS (Washington) _ The House and Senate voted overwhelmingly on Thursday in rapid succession to express virtually unqualified support for Israel in its recent military operations, largely brushing aside last-minute attempts by the Bush administration to soften language concerning the Palestinians. By Alison Mitchell. 	EXP-MIDEAST-JENIN (Jenin Refugee Camp, West Bank) _ In an extensive report, Human Rights Watch said Thursday that the Israeli army may have committed war crimes in Jenin, and called for a full-scale investigation. It particularly cited the use of human shields. The report said it had identified 52 Palestinians who were killed, of whom 22 were civilians; it criticized the bulldozing of 140 houses for no apparent military purpose. By David Rohde. 	EXP-FRANCE-POLITICS-MOOD (Schirmeck, France) _ This town in the forest is a place of dark secrets _ some new, some old and some underscoring the paradoxes that swirl around the strength here of Jean Marie Le Pen, the extreme right-wing insurgent who will challenge President Jacques Chirac in a run-off vote for the presidency of France on Sunday. By Alan Cowell. 	EXP-PRIEST-ABUSE-POLL (Undated) _ American Catholics favor a hard line in dealing with priests who sexually abuse children and teen-agers, saying that such priests should be barred from participating in parish life, and that any accusations of abuse should be investigated by local law enforcement rather than the church, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll. By Robin Toner. 	EXP-PRIEST-ARREST (Boston) _ The Rev. Paul Shanley was arrested in San Diego on three counts of raping a boy in Massachusetts. His accuser went to prosecutors this week and said Shanley had raped him between 1983 and 1990. Angry reaction to the Boston archdiocese's sympathetic handling of Shanley helped lead the pope to call last week's meeting of cardinal's in Rome. These are the first criminal charges against Shanley. By Pam Belluck. 	EXP-RIDGE-SECURITY (Washington) _ The director of homeland security, who has been forbidden to testify to Congress, overruled in White House councils and overshadowed by powerful Cabinet members reluctant to give up their turf, defends his job in an interview, calling himself an enabler, not a ``Pacman trying to gobble up power, money and responsibility.'' He briefed senators on Thursday at a special meeting in the Capitol, as a bipartisan group of lawmakers announced new legislation to create a Department of Homeland Security. By Elizabeth Becker. 	EXP-SCI-OZONE-ANTARCTICA (Undated) _ Scientists now believe that the hole in the ozone layer may be responsible for cooling, not warming, in Antarctica. By Kenneth Chang. 	EXP-WTC-SITE (New York) _ It is nearly done. Through the blur of unnoticed seasons, in an effort without parallel, 1.6 million tons of material from the collapse of the World Trade Center have been dismantled, examined, and carted off to be examined again. That fire-spitting, hellish mound has been reduced, one truckload at a time, to a few piles on a bedrock-bottomed pit. The curtain is about to fall on this mournful ballet. The last of what was the World Trade Center will be carted away by the end of the month. By Dan Barry. 	EXP-DELL-NORRIS-COLUMN (Undated) _ Gambling on your own stock price is not something companies often advertise they are doing. But for some companies, particularly technology companies, it was a popular strategy in the 1990s. Now it is coming back to haunt them. In Dell Computer's last fiscal year, ended Feb. 1, the company bought back 69 million shares for $3 billion. By Floyd Norris. 	QUESTIONS OR RERUNS: 888-346-9867 or 212-556-1927: 	The day supervisor is Gary E. McCardell (E-mail, garymc(at)nytimes.com). 	The evening supervisor is Pat Ryan (E-mail, patryan(at)nytimes.com). 	The late supervisor is Ray Krueger (E-mail, krueger(at)nytimes.com). 	PHOTOS AND GRAPHICS: 	The photo-graphics editor is Sergio Florez 	Phone: 888-603-1036 	E-mail: florez(at)nytimes.com 	TECHNICAL PROBLEMS: 	Berris Anderson 	(212) 499-3337, berris(at)nytimes.com 	e-mail to pager: page-berris(at)nytimes.com 	numeric page: 1-800-759-8888 pin 1066839 	or 	Harry Brindley 	(212) 499-3304, harryb(at)nytimes.com 	e-mail to pager: harryb(at)nytimes.com 	numeric page: 1-888-710-8736 	NEW YORK TIMES PARTNERS: 	Please note that your New York Times News Service report includes news and features from The Arizona Republic, The Boston Globe, Cox News Service, The Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Hearst Newspapers, The Houston Chronicle, The Kansas City Star, The Los Angeles Daily News, The San Francisco Chronicle, The Seattle Post-Intelligencer, States News Service and the New York Times Regional Newspapers. 	(Editors: All clients receive all budgets, but only full-service clients receive all stories. Please check your level of service to determine which stories you will receive.) 
