Ki Choquette had the light sabers. He had the special edition videos of ``Star Wars.'' He even had the signed photograph of George Lucas. But he didn't know how to swordfight like a Jedi. So on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday nights, the 13-year-old climbs the six floors of the Jan Hus Church on Manhattan's Upper East Side to an aging gym. For three hours, he practices using a bamboo sword with a dozen other students of various ages. The class is not a spin-off of the popular movie series, which continues next month with the opening of the fifth installment, ``Episode II: Attack of the Clones.'' Instead, it's a traditional Japanese martial art called kendo, or the ``way of the sword,'' rooted in more than a thousand years of history and practiced by millions of Japanese. Already growing in popularity outside of Japan, kendo has drawn the interest of an increasing number of Americans because of the ``Star Wars'' franchise, which features many of its swordfighting techniques. But instructors say few stick with it for long who are not prepared for a particularly strenuous and difficult martial art. ``There are many misinformed people,'' said Daniel T. Ebihara, head sensei, or teacher, of the Ken Zen Institute in Manhattan. ``But when they come in and observe our classes, they understand how difficult it is. My experience is that only one in 100 will remain a long, long time.'' Unlike karate and judo, kendo has been slow to become popular outside of Japan. In part, that is because it is not as practical as martial arts that can be used in self-defense. The equipment is also expensive, with a sword, uniform and body armor costing a minimum of $700 for a beginner. And it takes decades to achieve the equivalent skill level as a black belt in judo, for example. The skills are measured in ``dan,'' a grade ranging from one to 10, with 10 being the highest. Practitioners must wait for certain periods of time before applying for a higher rank, as well. Ebihara, who is 63, holds a seventh-dan grade. He will be eligible to apply for eighth-dan in eight years. There are currently no tenth-dan practitioners in the world, he said. But kendo has also had a troubled history. Long associated with the samurai -- on whom the Jedi knights of ``Star Wars'' are based -- swordfighting died out as a practical subject with the abolition of Japanese feudalism in 1871. Later, it became popular in Japan as a tool for self-discipline and the training of police and military officers. During World War II, the FBI investigated Japanese-Americans who practiced kendo and other martial arts, suspecting them of being supporters of Japan, said Alexander Bennett, co-publisher of Kendo World, the only English-language magazine on the martial art. Many families destroyed their equipment and quit practicing, he said. During the American occupation of Japan, Gen. Douglas MacArthur forbade the practice of kendo, blaming it for the nationalism that sparked the war. In the 1950s, a revamped, less-nationalistic kendo faced a resurgence in popularity in Japan, and it was reintroduced to other countries in the following decades. Today, there are about 400,000 non-Japanese practitioners, mostly in Korea, though 41 countries around the world are affiliated with the International Kendo Federation, an international governing body for the martial art. Bennett, a 32-year-old researcher for the Japanese Ministry of Education and a fifth-dan practitioner, first encountered kendo when he was a student at a Japanese high school in 1987. ``The first time I saw it, I thought of 'Star Wars,' not so much because of the style of swordfighting, but more because of the armor,'' he said. ``It looked like a whole lot of Darth Vaders running around screaming at each other. I suspect that kendo did receive a boost through 'Star Wars,' but not nearly as much as karate did with 'Karate Kid.''' When Garrett Huehner started studying in 1968 with a group of Japanese-American friends, he went to the only dojo, or martial arts training school, on the East Coast that taught kendo. Today, there are more than 2,000, including Huehner's Hudson River Kendo, which has two dozen students, and a small club he leads at the West Point military academy. In addition, he has started an after-school club of about 15 students at All Hallows High School in the Bronx, where he teaches history. Many of his students, he said, have learned about kendo from video games, Japanese animation and ``Star Wars.'' He enjoys the movies as entertainment, but he sometimes cringes at the martial arts in them. ``I don't think it's very good kendo,'' said Huehner, a sixth-dan practitioner. ``Most of my first-degree (students) could take those guys out in a minute.'' Still, he added, ``I'd love to get my hands on one of those light sabers.'' For Choquette, who has been studying for a month and a half at the New York City Kendo Club, the practice is difficult but rewarding. In between bouts of kiri-kaeshi, the repeated striking of his opponents' armor, he explains that it is a lot more fun than soccer or jujitsu, both of which he's tried before. ``It's about everybody getting to meet together and have fun smashing sticks together,'' he said. (EDITORS: There is no charge for use of this story, but please send a tearsheet to Professor Stephen D. Isaacs, Columbia News Service, Graduate School of Journalism, Columbia University, 2950 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10027.) 
