Come Saturday, Wilson Brown is going to break his golden rule. ``I've always made it a practice never to enter a horse on the first Saturday of May or on Breeders' Cup day,'' said the down-home trainer with the big white cowboy hat and a fancy, leather-tooled belt that peeked out every now and then from beneath his ample belly. ``Those are two days you get to watch the best horses in the world. ``Every year this time, I sit in front of the TV and watch the whole story _ the build-up, everything. This is the biggest horse race in the world. I mean, my wife teaches third grade and even her kids know about it. You'd have to live on Mars not to know of the Kentucky Derby.'' As he thought about it, he had to shake his head. He might not have been on Mars, but where he found himself Thursday was somewhere almost as inconceivable to him. The horseman born in Cement, Okla., was standing on the Churchill Downs' backside _ outside Barn 42 _ where he's stabled It'sallinthechase, the 50-1 bay colt he'll take to the post for Saturday's 128th running of the Kentucky Derby. There certainly are more accomplished animals in the 20-horse field, just as there are bigger-name trainers and connections with deeper pockets. But when it comes to dreamers, fairy tales and the romance of the roses, there's no better story than that of the cowboy and the colt. The 59-year-old Brown comes from the bottom rung of racing, the bush tracks of Oklahoma, Nebraska and the Texas Panhandle. He started racing quarterhorses at a place called Apache Downs. ``Sometimes we wouldn't race for but $100, maybe $150,'' he said. ``With two pitchers of beer and eatin' lunch, you went in the hole. You wanted to be sure you went over there with with a full tank of gas so you could get back home.'' His colt has even less airs. There's nothing especially blue-blood about him whether you're talking pedigree, price tag or performance. He cost just $27,000 _''and I paid just $1,000 for his mare,'' admitted Kentucky breeder Ted Kuster _ and that's a far cry from the $2.3 million spent for fellow Derby starter, Essence of Dubai. In fact, the 10 most expensive yearlings in 2000 cost an average of $4.12 million each. ``This really is a Cinderella story,'' said It'sallinthechase groom, Rusty Paul. She's originally from Springfield, her dad worked at Chrysler in Dayton and her grandmother, Mildred Paul, lives in Xenia. ``The folks in Ohio, everybody anywhere has got to like what's happened to this colt. ``When he first arrived in New Orleans (for the March 10 Louisiana Derby), people there were so down on him. They said, 'He doesn't belong in a Derby prep. They didn't like what was paid for him. They questioned his breeding. They said he was inconsistent. After he broke his maiden, he had some disappointing finishes and then he flopped at Belmont (the Breeders Cup Juvenile, where he ran 10th). ``Well, he went off 52-1 in Louisiana and even though he got in trouble, he still finished strong and ended up third. Right then people changed their tune. He's really come on and matured and a lot of those folks can just sit back now and watch a wonderful story unfold.'' It starts with Brown's first morning on the Churchill Downs backside. He arrived before dawn and was drawn to the sight of the glowing Twin Spires across the track. ``They had the lights on them and I just leaned on the rail looking at them, thinking, 'Goodness gracious, what a deal!' ``If you're a trainer like (Bob) Baffert of (D. Wayne) Lukas, you can plan on coming here every year. But when you're somebody like me, you can't dream about the Kentucky Derby. . . . Oh, maybe for a fleeting moment you think, 'Wouldn't that be something.' But it pretty much sounds like flyin' to the moon _ not that you'd ever get to.'' Derby dreams didn't swirl around his Dust Bowl beginnings. From Cement, his address got a lot less concrete. ``I went to 13 different schools,'' he said. ``We pretty much followed the crops, working cotton, hay and wheat through Oklahoma and the Panhandle. But when I was 14, we ended up living in Verden, Okla., where this old gentleman had 50 horses. I had read every horse book I could find and then all of a sudden I thought I'd died and gone to heaven. I got up every morning and walked over to the lot and just looked at them. My dad finally says to me, 'I believe you got horses between the eyes.' '' He soon had them between the shoulder blades and in the ribs, knees, and neck, too. Hooves that is and the horns of bulls. He'd become a rodeo cowboy and he took a beating. ``Oh yeah, I still feel it in my neck,'' he said. ``If I sleep wrong, I remember right back to when I got clipped.'' He began training roping horses in the mid-'70s. That's when a friend convinced him to run the horse he was working with _ a colt called Bar Money Steed _ just once at Apache Downs. ``Ran him one time and won and that was it. I was hooked,'' Brown said. ``Raced him on them bush tracks 56 times and he won 48.'' Yet for all the success, Apache Downs, in some ways, was closer to Mars than Louisville. ``There was no betting except what you did with each other,'' Brown said. ``After the race you collected . . . if you were tough enough.'' He eventually moved to thoroughbreds and after a while landed some better stock. Although he considers tracks like Remington Park in Oklahoma City and Canterbury Park outside Minneapolis his home circuits, he's had some horses that have taken him around the country. One of his best was Mister Deville, which, like It'sallinthechase, is owned by Darwin Olson of Rochester, Minn. Mister Deville won the Nebraska and Indiana derbies and the 1999 Remington Park Futurity. When It'sallinthechase finished second in the Grade II Arlington-Washington Futurity last September, there were high hopes for him. But since then there were two disappointing outings. The Belmont fizzle and a ninth-place finish at the Arkansas Derby a month ago. It's been discovered the horse had a severe breathing problem _ he would flip his soft palate _ but that's been corrected, Brown said. And that led Olson to try the Derby, though the spectacle has them all a bit awestruck. ``We been to three goat ropin's and two county fairs, but we never been to a deal like this,'' winked Jerry Martin, Brown's sidekick of 30 years. Although he wondered how he'd be accepted by the game's heavyweights, Brown said Baffert and Lukas _ both from the quarter horse ranks themselves _ ``have gone out of their way to make me feel comfortable.'' And that's led Brown to take in everything he can _ the Derby Museum, the prerace Crawfish Boil and the Kentucky trainers' dinner. ``I landed in a trap on that one,'' he said. ``I asked, 'How should I dress?' They said to come anyway, so I showed up in my hat, my boots and my Wranglers. Well, everybody else but the Cajun guy I brought along with me was wearing suits and ties. The ladies were all dressed. I end up sitting next to the governor _ so close I could slap him in the head. My buddy had a ball. He says to me, 'I never had my picture taken so many times before.' I said, 'Yeah, but why they takin' pictures of us?' '' The last think he wants to be is a novelty act: ``I hope Saturday shows we were justifiably right in bringing our horse here. But even so, something struck me at the draw last night. I thought, 'You're starting a horse in the greatest race in the world!' And no matter where we finish, they can't take that away from me. I'll have that the rest of my life.'' Goodness gracious, what a deal. Tom Archdeacon writes for the Dayton Daily News. Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
