The New York Times said in an editorial for Friday, May 3: In the wake of Sept. 11, President Bush sent out a welcome message that this nation would not tolerate attacks on Muslims or any other Americans because of their religion or national origin. Now Congress has a chance to back up the president's promise by passing an important hate-crimes bill, the Local Law Enforcement Enhancement Act, which would expand the scope of the federal government to investigate and prosecute anyone who targets racial and religious minorities, gays, the disabled and other groups because of hate. Under current law, the federal government can prosecute hate crimes only in cases where the victim was engaged in a federally protected activity, like voting, or if the crime occurred on federal property. The new bill would remove those limitations and allow federal investigators and prosecutors to pursue hate crimes wherever they occur, and under whatever circumstances. Investigating and prosecuting crimes is generally a local matter, but not always. Congress has long recognized that the federal government should play a role in pursuing certain crimes, like bank robbery, kidnapping and racketeering, where the national interest is great and where federal law enforcement is in a good position to offer help to local police and prosecutors. Crimes in which individuals are singled out because of their race, religion or membership in other protected groups strike directly at this nation's commitment to equality, and are worthy of this sort of special federal involvement. In addition to expanding the reach of federal law enforcement, the bill extends the reach of federal hate crimes to include actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender and disability, but only when the crime involves a violent act that results in death or bodily injury. Gays, in particular, are the third-largest hate-crime victim group, targets of more than 16 percent of all hate crimes in 2000, according to the FBI. Extending the law to protect all of these groups makes sense. The Senate majority leader, Tom Daschle, has promised that the bill, which has 51 Senate co-sponsors, will come up for a vote before summer. The Senate should offer its strong support. The bill is expected to have a harder time in the Republican-controlled House, but it should not. As Bush reminded us last fall, hate crimes have no place in America today. The enhancement act would help to make the president's strong statement of principle a reality. 
