Gerry Hunsicker may or may not be working the phones, seeking outside help for what ails the Astros. But if you ask him what really needs to happen to shake the defending Central Division champions out of the funk they're in, Hunsicker's answer has nothing to do with wheeling and dealing. It has everything to do with pitching and hitting. Primarily the latter. ``It always comes down to this: Can your strengths overcome your weaknesses?'' the Astros' general manager was saying before Wednesday night's game. ``In our case, it's going to be hard to win if the offense doesn't pick things up. ``The guys we have here are good enough to get the job done. If they do what they're supposed to do, we'll be competitive.'' Hunsicker left the corollary unsaid _ but clearly understood. ``We're stuck in a rut, spinning our wheels,'' he continued. ``We haven't played well as a team, and using the `it's early' stuff is a crutch. It's time to get it together.'' The Astros came out of April under .500 for only the second time in the last six seasons, and the precedent, in case you're wondering, is a scary one. Their 9-14 record in the opening month of the 2000 season would beget a 72-90 conclusion. Not coincidentally, the 17-10 of 1998 led to a franchise-best 102-60. But it is tad late now for the Astros to blast off to that obviously more desirous rip-roaring, fire-breathing start. They are going to have to focus on the 136 games they have left, on the ``marathon'' of which manager Jimy Williams frequently speaks, trying to calm our fears. But for them to keep from being completely buried early, April's showers had better produce May flowers _ and don't count on any supplemental fertilizer to be forthcoming. Unlike last spring, there are no known Vinny Castillas withering on somebody else's vine, and the Astros' own garden appears to be somewhat picked over, thanks to the bountiful early harvest of a year ago. Hunsicker can't summon Roy Oswalt and Carlos Hernandez from the farm. They already are putting down roots here. Not that the starting pitching needs much revamping, or even tweaking, despite the unfortunate subtraction of Wade Miller from the mix until further notice. Even in a weakened state, the rotation alone has carried its own weight. It is the B's _ the bats and the bullpen _ that are posting a preponderance of D's and F's. Hunsicker's sternly worded pre-game exhortation notwithstanding, the evening produced a status-quo result, both in terms of the script and the resulting 5-4 defeat _ Houston's sixth by a single run already. Shane Reynolds held Montreal to a Vladimir Guerrero solo homer over six innings, while the Astros scored zip behind him. In the third, Craig Biggio struck out, and Orlando Merced grounded out after Jose Vizcaino reached third with one out. In the fourth, Geoff Blum whiffed with Lance Berkman on third with two down. After Berkman finally delivered something besides hair-pulling frustration in the sixth, jacking his major-league-leading 11th homer into the Crawford Boxes for a short-lived 3-1 Astros lead, it was the pitching that immediately went south. Reynolds let the first two Expos get on base to start the seventh. Williams replaced him with Octavio ``Oh-No'' Dotel, who blew the save chance, letting four runs cross the plate _ three via another Guerrero blast _ before he found refuge back in the dugout. Then, with the Astros trailing by one in the bottom of the seventh, Jeff Bagwell took a called third strike with two men on and two out. Maddening. Hunsicker, it should be noted, has no quarrel with the maneuverings of Williams. While managers may be dropping like dot-coms around baseball, the Astros' new skipper is safely ensconced on his Houston honeymoon. Hunsicker not only condones but applauds Jimy's effort to mix and match his pieces, frantically searching for a batting order that works. Williams tried yet another new one Wednesday night, sticking the lefthanded-hitting Merced in the two hole, between Biggio and Bagwell, and dropping catcher Brad Ausmus to seventh, never mind his 2-for-4 the previous evening. (On Sunday, Ausmus had led off when Williams gave Biggio a breather.) Also, Blum started for Morgan Ensberg at third, and Vizcaino replaced Julio Lugo at short. You play for Jimy, and you must remember to carefully peruse the lineup card every day. ``One of the ways we've tried to improve is to become more competitive against the better pitchers by being less predictable,'' Hunsicker said. ``That's why we've added some lefthanded hitters. If we're not going to use them, why have them?'' The same could be said of those wooden things the Astros carry to the plate. In the bottom of the ninth, the home team had one last hope of salvation when Ensberg, pinch-hitting, slapped a single to left with two out. Again, here came Biggio, franchise icon, possible future Hall of Famer. And there went Biggio, meekly. His soft liner to center put a quiet wrap on the proceedings. The 17-10 Expos, who were supposed to be Extinctos, go for the series sweep today. Hunsicker, meanwhile, will dutifully dial away, when he is not staring blankly at the New Orleans roster. Both activities are largely a waste of time, though. The Astros can fix themselves only by looking deeply inside themselves. 
