CAN SHARON AND ARAFAT BE PUSHED TOWARD PEACE? (For use by New York Times News Service clients) By ROBERT E. THOMPSON c.2002 Hearst Newspapers WASHINGTON _ Standing like a mighty colossus astride the killing fields of the Holy Land, Ariel Sharon remains unyielding on a key proposal that could lead the Israelis and Palestinians to a viable peace agreement. Meanwhile, Yasser Arafat, released at last from his Sharon-imposed captivity, must decide whether to opt for a peace accord that may not contain all he desires or accept the possibility that the people in the region will continue to be helpless pawns in an unending struggle. The proposal that Sharon refuses to discuss is similar to one that Arafat rejected at the end of Bill Clinton's presidency. It calls for Israel to return to the Palestinians nearly all of the Gaza Strip and West Bank land they conquered in 1967's Six-Day War. That would be bitter pill to swallow for Israelis, who have built settlements housing 200,000 people on parts of the conquered land. It is questionable also whether Arafat has the power to end the suicide-bomber attacks that have killed scores of Israelis in restaurants and market places and triggered Sharon's reprisals. Yet there now is hope in the decision of George W. Bush and Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Abdullah to join forces in a quest for peace in the Middle East. Bush, who for months refused to use his authority and prestige to help end the bloodshed, has decided to lead the movement to obtain a cease-fire between two warring sides and the total withdrawal of Israeli troops from occupied land. Bush's switch was prompted by the decision of Prince Abdullah, who met with the president for five hours at his ranch in Crawford, Texas, on April 25., to seek Israeli and Palestinian acceptance of a Saudi peace initiative. The two leaders decided that Bush would to try to persuade Sharon to agree to preliminary steps while Abdullah and other Abab leaders would put similar pressure on Arafat. Once a cease-fire takes hold and Israeli troops withdraw, the two sides will be prodded to authorize negotiations for a political settlement leading to Palestinian statehood and the Arab world's recognition of Israel's right to exist in peace. That could require Sharon to do one thing he has vowed he never would do: return Israel to its 1967 borders. Since he is both a politician and a militarist and since his constituents support his adamancy on the issue, it is difficult to see how he can be persuaded to change his position. Bush got the back of Sharon's hand a few weeks ago when he demanded that Sharon withdraw Israeli troops and tanks immediately from occupied cities. Sharon's forces, arguing that they were rooting out terrorists, continued turning Palestinian buildings into rubble while killing and maiming Palestinian people. If Bush tries to pressure Sharon into accepting the Saudi's land-for-peace deal, the president may get slapped once more. But if Abdullah keeps the backing of the Arab states and if public sentiment builds for Israel to take the trade, it is possible that Sharon might soften his position. He should remember that at the end of World War II, America, Britain and their allies did not seek reparations or land that had belonged to Nazi Germany, imperial Japan or fascist Italy. Instead, the United States created the Marshall Plan to rebuild war-torn Europe, including Germany and Italy. We did the same with Japan. But Sharon demonstrated the power of his Israel First policy last week when the United Nations canceled its plans to investigate claims that Israeli troops had massacred Palestinians at the Jenin refugee camp in the West Bank. Bowing to Sharon's complaints that the probe would be one-sided, U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan decided to call it off. Sharon, of course, is not the only barrier to peace in the Middle East. Arafat and the Palestinian suicide terrorists are equally guilty. Israel presumably will follow the course set by Sharon. But will Hamas and other terrorist groups follow Arafat's lead even if he is amenable to peace? A planned meeting between Bush and Sharon this week should tell us something about the road ahead. The outcome is vitally important to the world. 
