The only time the Nets advanced to the second round of the NBA playoffs, in 1984, they jumped to an early lead against the Milwaukee Bucks in Game 6. Quickly calling a timeout, the Bucks' coach, Don Nelson, later the Knicks' coach briefly and now the Dallas Mavericks' coach, crouched in front of his players. ``You guys are playing like it's the regular season,'' Nelson growled. There is no greater insult. Not just in pro basketball, but in any sport. The playoffs, no matter what the series situation or where the game is, demand an attitude that doesn't always exist during the weary and winding 82 games of the regular-season schedule. That night in 1984, those Bucks of Sidney Moncrief and Bob Lanier responded to their coach's insult by rallying for a 98-97 victory that eliminated those Nets of Buck Williams, Albert King, Micheal Ray Richardson, Darryl Dawkins and Otis Birdsong. But Thursday night these Nets of Jason Kidd, Kenyon Martin, Keith Van Horn and Kerry Kittles must respond to having played in Tuesday night's 97-74 loss in Indianapolis as if it were the regular season. As if they had lost in Memphis on the way to Cleveland in a February snowstorm. As if they had just sashayed through 48 minutes. As if they could afford to take the night off, which is exactly how their coach, Byron Scott, described their performance. ``Our guys basically took the night off,'' Scott said. These Nets can't afford to take Thursday night off, too. If they lose to the Pacers in the decisive Game 5, they will have wasted not only the stature and the home-court advantage they earned with 52 victories as the top seed in the Eastern Conference, they will have reverted to being just another disappointing Nets team that couldn't get past the first round of the playoffs. Of the 10 times the Nets have qualified for the NBA playoffs since coming over from the American Basketball Association, they survived the first round only that once in 1984. They somehow dethroned the 1983 champion 76ers of Julius Erving, Moses Malone and Mo Cheeks, 101-98, in Game 5 in Philadelphia before losing to the Bucks. But for those 1984 Nets, like all the other Nets playoff teams, every victory was an upset. Those Nets were expected to lose. For these Nets, this 11th time in the playoffs is different. These Nets are expected to win Thursday night, just as they were expected to win the series with the Pacers. For a young, growing team, as these Nets are, Thursday night is their moment of truth. They must prove that they are capable of winning in the playoffs when they are expected to win. And more than any of his teammates, Jason Kidd has to prove that he's capable of leading the Nets to a Game 5 victory when he's expected to lead them. In his five previous playoffs, Kidd got past the first round with the Phoenix Suns only once. In 2000, the Suns eliminated the San Antonio Spurs in four games before they were bounced by the Los Angeles Lakers in five. But this time Kidd has much more stature _ the first Nets player named to the all-NBA team (with Shaquille O'Neal, Kobe Bryant, Tim Duncan and Tracy McGrady) as well as the Nets' first premier candidate for the Most Valuable Player award. During Wednesday's film session before practice, Kidd used his stature to impress Thursday night's moment of truth on his teammates. ``This was only about the third time all year that Jason's been aggressive with his words,'' Scott said. ``He got his point across extremely well. He conveyed the message in a see-what-we're-made-of tone.'' That tone translated to Keith Van Horn later saying, ``It's going to be a matter of will.'' And if there's a will, there will be a way for Van Horn to do much more than his five points and four rebounds on Tuesday night. But Thursday night's moment of truth for the Nets will come down to what it has all season _ how well Kidd generates energy both on offense and defense. ``For us to take the next step, we have to get this win,'' Kidd said after Wednesday's practice. ``You've got to be aggressive. You have to have the confidence that every shot you take is going in. We all understand that it can't be the same as it was Tuesday night or it'll be the same outcome.'' And the same sense of having played as if it's the regular season. 
