The ultimate creature of habit could not have had a more disruptive season than Nomar Garciaparra last year. There was nothing routine about the reconstructive wrist surgery he had last April on his right hand, and nothing remotely satisfying about a season in which he missed all but 21 games because he needed months to heal. So how does he feel, now that's he back playing every day? ``Surviving, man,'' the Red Sox shortstop said. ``Just surviving.'' His words suggest a man living paycheck to paycheck, barely hanging onto his job. His bat, however, speaks more of revival than survival. When the Sox walk into Tropicana Field here Friday night to play the Devil Rays in the first of a four-game set, Garciaparra will be aiming to extend a 15-game hitting streak, the longest current streak in the majors and just two games short of the 17-game streak by Paul Konerko of the Chicago White Sox, the longest in the season's first month. ``If he doesn't get two hits a game,'' said Sox living icon Johnny Pesky, who calls Garciaparra the best righthanded hitter since Joe DiMaggio, ``you almost feel disappointed. It seems like he's never fooled on a pitch.'' Garciaparra has hit safely in 20 of the 22 games in which he has played, and is coming off a six-game homestand in which he hit .450 (9 for 20). He already has one four-hit game, in Baltimore April 24, and if anyone thinks Garciaparra will tail off because the team is headed West Tuesday to face the A's and Mariners and their stellar rotations, think again: Garciaparra is hitting .384 lifetime in Network Associates Coliseum in Oakland and .372 in Safeco Field in Seattle. That was before he had Manny Ramirez hitting behind him, which isn't even the scariest part of what Garciaparra has done so far. This is: ``I think he's still searching,'' said Dwight Evans, the new Sox hitting coach. When the weather warms up, Evans predicts, so will Garciaparra. ``This word isn't even in the dictionary,'' Evans said, ``but when it's cold like it has been, it's hard to feel hitterish. ``Your hands have to be soft, you have to be relaxed, your muscles have to be loose. That's how you're quick. When you're cold, you're tight. ``But he's really had some great swings in the last six to eight days. He's really beginning to find his zone.'' This is the first time Evans has spent any length of time around Garciaparra. The former Sox right fielder looked for a bat to demonstrate what he has found most impressive to date. ``Most hitters, you see marks on the bat, about 10 to 12 inches up and down the barrel,'' Evans said. ``With Nomar, it's like 3 1/2-4 inches. I'm not saying he always hits the ball on the sweet spot, but he always uses the same part of the bat. I've never seen that.'' Evans attributes that in part to Garciaparra's short stride, but mostly to his remarkable hand-eye coordination. ``This guy is special,'' he said. Like Pesky, there is a tendency to take Garciaparra's streaks for granted, at least while they're still in the mid-teens. That comes from seeing him stitch together a 30-game hitting streak in his first season, 1997, an American League rookie record. But this is already the 17th time Garciaparra, who will be 29 July 23, has had a streak of 10 games or more, in what is essentially his fifth season: 4 in '97, 4 in '98, 5 in '99 and 3 in 2000. He already is one of just 28 players who have had at least three streaks of 20 games or more in their career; that number shrinks to a dozen for players who have done it at least four times in their career, including Wade Boggs (4). Pete Rose has done it most often, seven times. Ted Williams, as great as he was, only did it once, hitting in 23 straight games in 1941, the year he hit .406. Garciaparra traces the origin of his injury to being hit by a pitch by a Baltimore scatter-arm named Al Reyes in the last days of the '99 season. He had injections of cortisone in order to play in the playoffs that season against the Cleveland Indians, missing one game because of the injury. ``We should have shot him in the head,'' said Mike Hargrove, who was manager of the Indians at the time and now manages the Orioles. ``Nomar is a tough guy,'' Hargrove said. ``A real tough guy. So you know it really had to be bad.'' He played a full season, however, in 2000 and hit .372, becoming the first righthanded hitter since DiMaggio in 1939-40 to win consecutive batting titles. But the condition worsened the following spring, aggravated most likely by constant wear or perhaps by a traumatic episode no one has pinpointed, and Garciaparra underwent surgery to repair not only a split tendon in the wrist, but also the protective sheath around the tendon and an exposed piece of bone at the bottom of the sheath. Red Sox team doctor Bill Morgan, along with other baseball medicine men, could not recall another baseball player who had such extensive surgery on a wrist. ``Usually,'' Hargrove said, ``wrist injuries are really difficult to come back from. You have to be close to 100 percent healed, because if you're not careful and come back too soon, you could really set yourself back.'' Teams have been testing Garciaparra by throwing him fastballs high in the strike zone, thinking that perhaps because of continued soreness and stiffness in his wrist, Garciaparra can't get on top of those pitches. Judging by the results, it may be time to try something else. ``The Baltimore closer, (Jorge) Julio, threw Nomar a 100-mile-an-hour fastball last week and he had one of his best swings in days,'' Evans said. ``He fouled the pitch straight back, but just missed it by a hair. He was right on it. He knew the pitch was up, but he went after it. ``The next day, Julio threw him another fastball, but Nomar had made him come down, and he lined it to left field for a hit.'' Power? Garciaparra has just three home runs so far, but has hit several balls that could have gone out, including one that struck the top of the center-field wall this week. If Garciaparra has any doubts about his ability to hit the same way after the injury as he did before, he isn't expressing them. ``I haven't really thought about it,'' he said. ``Just go out and do my job, and hope it happens, that's all you can do. ``I'm just a part of this team, trying to do whatever I can do.'' So far, it's working. ``The wrist is healthy, and he's taking great swings,'' Evans said. ``He's zeroing in on his zone. It's just a matter of time.'' 
