ATTENTION EDITORS: This article from the NEWHOUSE NEWS SERVICE report of MONDAY, APRIL 29, 2002, is available as a ``separate buy.'' For information about purchasing the article, contact DEBRA WEYDERT of The New York Times Syndicate at 732-390-4480; fax, 732-390-4697; e-mail, weyded(at)nytimes.com By KEVIN COUGHLIN c.2002 Newhouse News Service (UNDATED) As authorities hunt the anthrax killer, scientists are pursuing novel ways to find and kill the lethal germ. There are schemes to cripple the bug with viruses, and drown it with foam dropped from planes. Florida scientists want to give anthrax a deadly dose of termite gas. Rutgers University hopes to rig weather stations to sniff for bioterror. The Army is testing radar to look for spore clouds. In Pittsburgh, experts think cough syrup is a harbinger of doom. Bottom line on anthrax: What was bad news for victims last fall is a bonanza for researchers now. ``If your research is related to counterterrorism in any way, or can be made to appear that way, it's pretty good,'' said Kei Koizumi of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. ``Biological pathogens is a hot field.'' Federal agencies are spending $1.5 billion this year on research and development for counterterrorism. That's nearly three times last year's amount, and Koizumi expects the figure to approach $3 billion in 2003. The biggest jump, he said, was for bioterror research, an area overlooked before autumn's anthrax by mail killed five people and spread panic. About half this year's federal spending on counterterror research is for combating bioterror. ``With the other things, we know what to do,'' Koizumi said. ``Bioterrorism is the opposite. There's a lot we don't know.'' Projects at Rutgers include plans to retrofit weather stations for real-time alerts to biochemical or nuclear threats. David Robinson, the state climatologist at Rutgers, seeks funds to computer-link more than 100 weather outposts within a year. He said many stations record wind speed and direction _ vital for tracking plumes. At the university's Waksman Institute, a microbiology center where the FBI hunted for anthrax suspects, Rutgers associate professor Konstantin Severinov is exploring an ancient antidote to anthrax: viruses. Severinov will return to his native Russia in June to meet with former Soviet weaponeers. He's part of a U.S. program to subsidize Russian scientists who otherwise might be tempted by terrorists. America's interest in bug-killing viruses, or ``phages,'' waned with the discovery of antibiotics. But the Soviets pressed on, Severinov said. ``Over the years,'' he said, ``the Russians amassed a huge collection of phages, able to destroy anthrax, plague, tularemia _ bugs commonly used as bioweapons.'' Severinov said these viruses could hold the key to defeating drug-resistant super-bugs. Despite many unknowns, viruses pose an attractive alternative to antibiotics. They target specific bacteria; antibiotics wipe out good and bad germs. An anthrax victim might be given a virus as a treatment of last resort, Severinov said. Scientists hope to create potent drugs by studying how viruses destroy their host bacteria. In Florida, where termites reign, scientists said a common pesticide has tested well against an anthrax cousin, Bacillus subtilis. ``It's more difficult to kill than anthrax,'' said Rudolf Scheffrahn of the University of Florida. He said methyl bromide _ an ozone-depleting fumigant to be banned by 2005 _ not only killed the germs, but did so more safely and cheaply than the ``explosive and unstable'' chlorine dioxide that decontaminated the Hart Senate Office Building. Fears of anthrax from the sky followed reports about crop-duster inquiries made by a Sept. 11 hijacker. A toxicologist at Ohio's Kent State University has other ideas. Mitch Fadem seeks $1.4 million to test-spray anthrax substitutes from cargo planes with DF-100, a foam pesticide invented by Sandia National Laboratories. Fadem's efforts pre-date the anthrax attacks. ``Now,'' he said, ``more funds are available. We're closer than we were before.'' This month the Army and Environmental Protection Agency spewed powdered egg whites, clay dust, alcohol and harmless spores from a crop-duster off Key West. They wondered whether civilian radars could detect biochemical attacks. ``Preliminary results look very promising,'' said Army spokesman Mickey Morales. Within 18 months, he said, the goal is ``to create an umbrella for all radars in the U.S.,'' to spy suspicious clouds. Others are focusing on faster reporting of flulike symptoms to tip off an attack. Carnegie Mellon University this month cited encouraging results of a two-year, $1 million study that tracked spikes of cough syrup sales in Pittsburgh supermarkets. Statistician Stephen Fienberg said more drugs should be tracked, from stores nationwide, for an effective warning system. A computer system already tracks symptoms from 75 Florida and Virginia hospitals. Hatched by the Pentagon, and tested at the presidential inauguration and World Series, it's run by the Air Force and tech firms. The Air Force wants the system to scan for symptoms of 20 diseases from pharmacy, radiology, laboratory and doctor records. ``We can have national surveillance within a year or two,'' said Air Force Lt. Col. Steve Bell. PH END COUGHLIN (Kevin Coughlin covers technology for The Star-Ledger of Newark, N.J. He can be contacted at kcoughlin(at)starledger.com.) 
