Everyone agrees there's no marquee equine for Saturday's 128th Kentucky Derby. Meaning NBC's coverage of the Run for the Roses poses many intriguing questions. Start with the fact that the network has seven special isolated cameras focused on the 20-horse field. So who gets covered and who doesn't? ``Last year, we only had five iso cameras,'' said race show producer David Michaels on Thursday. ``Having two more, that's great, but there's 13 we don't have isolated. We have to handicap the race in our way. ``We have a production meeting (tonight) where we argue these things, and it could be the longest meeting in the history of horse racing coverage.'' You know, you could just order 20 isolated cameras, considering the extraordinary circumstances. ``We have something called a budget,'' Michaels continued. ``Plus you just can't plug extra cameras with the way all the trucks are configured. There are physical limitations. And how much fun would it be if everyone was isolated.'' Isolated is how some might feel at home as well. If this race is supposed to attract the casual fan -- most hardcore racing guys will be somewhere at satellite wagering depots -- what will that do to the ratings if there's no draw? ``Last year, Point Given was well-known enough to the casual fan and a lot of people tuned in. This time, I don't think people know any of them, so I'll be curious to see how (ratings) can be quantified,'' said Michaels. ``What it comes down to is how much groundswell there is to the world at large. The day when TV dictates everything has come and gone.'' Another problem is how to give viewers enough info on all the horses, jockeys, trainers and owners in the 2-to-3:30 p.m. window of broadcasting. ``It's a challenge in that it's the most wide-open in recent memory with a lot of different stories,'' said the show's co-host, Tom Hammond. ``It's just a mysterious race. We're going to try to identify all the players and see who comes out on top.'' ``Given the rituals of the Derby, to me, that hour-and-a-half goes by way too fast,'' said Michaels. ``We need every bit of it.'' Since most never have or never will be at Churchill Downs on a day like this, Michaels also wants to try to give everyone a sense of being one of the 125,000 people there. ``We are cutting back a lot on videotape elements and trying to find away to translate what it's like here,'' said Michaels. ``It's like what (jockey) Pat Day said to me. The Derby on TV is like looking at picture of the Grand Canyon. The only way to feel it is to be there. Our goal really will be to try to bring to viewer to the 'real Grand Canyon.' '' --Horses to hoops: After the Derby, Hammond returns to NBC's NBA coverage Sunday, but it won't be as Marv Albert's replacement anymore. Albert, recovering from an automobile accident on April 18 that left him with a broken ankle and concussion, is doing the Sacramento-Dallas Game 1 that airs Saturday immediately following the Kentucky Derby, then he'll be at the Lakers' second-round opener from Staples Center on Sunday afternoon. --Spring-football notes: With Pat Summerall and John Madden gone, it's no surprise that Fox picked Joe Buck as the new lead play-by-play man on the NFL, officially announcing it Thursday. But the second part of the announcement -- pulling Cris Collinsworth out of the studio to join a three-man booth with Troy Aikman -- is the dangerous step considering the successful chemistry on the ``NFL on Fox'' pregame show. ``Going with Joe and Troy was obvious, but taking Cris out (of the studio) was probably the hardest hurdle for (executive producer) Ed (Goren) and I to overcome,'' said Fox chairman David Hill. ``We just felt it was the right thing to do. What Cris is going to bring to the booth may be a greater contribution than to what he did on the pregame.'' So who replaces Collinsworth as the foil for Terry Bradshaw and Howie Long? ``It took a long time to get this three-man booth set and we'll take some time to resolve that next,'' said Goren. ``You may have to tune in Week 1 to see who fills in that chair.'' Buck, whose father Jack was the long-time radio voice of ``Monday Night Football'' with Hank Stram, won a Sports Emmy last week for his play-by-play work on Fox's major-league baseball coverage. When Buck is doing the MLB playoffs and World Series in October, Dick Stockton will fill in with the team during the overlap. Meanwhile, in a louder move, Fox is also changing the producer/director team on the No. 1 unit. Bob Stenner and Sandy Grossman, the longtime Summerall-Madden guidance counselors, are being replaced by Richie Zyontz and Arnie Kempner, who were on Aikman's team last year. And over at ABC came the word Thursday that Dan Fouts, bumped from the ``Monday Night Football'' booth with the arrival of John Madden, goes back to college football and will sit alongside Keith Jackson this fall. Tim Brant, Jackson's analyst the last two seasons, goes back to play-by-play duties.  WHAT SMOKES --Dick Enberg will grab an honorary doctorate of humane letters, then deliver the commencement address at Indiana University on Saturday. Enberg earned a master's degree (1958) and a doctorate (1962) in health services from Indiana and was the first play-by-play voice of the Indiana University Sports Network in 1957, before he got his first full-time broadcasting job, in 1965, as the radio (KMPC) and TV (KTLA) voice of the Angels, Rams and UCLA basketball. --Following up on its docudrama of the Baltimore Ravens' training camp a year ago, HBO's ``Hard Knocks'' will tag along with the Dallas Cowboys this summer. The second season starts Wednesday July 31 and run six weeks. WHAT CHOKES --It'll only cost $54.95 to watch the June 8 Mike Tyson-Lennox Lewis heavyweight title on pay-per-view, according to a joint announcement of HBO (which represents Lewis) and Showtime (which has Tyson). With a PPV universe of about 50 million homes, promoters say they'll have no problem reaching 1 million and could approach the near 2 million buys for the second Tyson-Evander Holyfield bout in 1997. --ESPY Awards update: A new category for the July 10 presentation from the Kodak Theatre: Best Sports Movie. Wonder if someone came up with this as way to nominate a home-made piece of schlock about Robert Montgomery Knight. 
