The man expected to become China's next leader had friendly meetings with President Bush and other top officials on Wednesday as he neared the end of his first visit to the United States. Both sides believe that the visit by China's heir apparent, Vice President Hu Jintao, can help set the tone for future Chinese-American relations, and most of the discussions did not move beyond pleasantries and pro forma statements of existing policies, officials said. But Hu has been showered with top-level, if discreet, attention of the kind normally reserved for heads of state, and officials from both sides expressed satisfaction with the visit. Both sides sought to play down a festering disagreement over American military aid to Taiwan. ``I have been deeply impressed by what I have seen and heard,'' Hu said in a speech on Wednesday to 500 businessmen and scholars. Hu, who spoke directly with no jokes or aphorisms, gave a standard defense of China's economic gains and what he called a steady march toward more human rights and democracy. Answering questions at a banquet on Wednesday, he sounded more like a policy expert than a politician. Asked about the challenge of unemployment, he gave a detailed 15 minute explanation of farming, urbanization and labor policies. But he warned that American arms sales to Taiwan could jeopardize relations. Earlier this week in New York, Hu was warmly embraced by many titans of American business and finance who hope to increase investment and trade with China. Hu has been a consummate insider in China's Communist Party, avoiding flamboyant actions or much contact with Western officials and scholars in the past. This trip is widely seen as an important step in preparation for his ascension later this year to the leadership of the Communist Party. In a 30-minute meeting with President Bush, and longer sessions with Vice President Dick Cheney and several Cabinet members, Hu discussed the war on terror and China's economic opening, as well as Taiwan, weapons proliferation and freedom of religion. In the only concrete result announced on Wednesday, Hu and Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld agreed to restore military cooperation and exchanges that have been on ice since the dispute last year over a downed American spy plane, a Chinese spokeswoman said on Wednesday night. In keeping with the careful strategy that has taken him to the brink of power, Hu asked to keep press appearances during his trip to a minimum. After his meeting with President Bush today, Hu left the White House with a smile and wave, saying only, ``The talks went well.'' American officials were under orders not to discuss details of the visit. Chinese leaders are worried about recent statements and actions by the Bush administration that in their eyes amount to a more overt American alliance with Taiwan, which China considers an errant province that Beijing insists must be reunited with the motherland, by force if necessary. Hu raised China's concerns about Taiwan in his meetings here, something he had to do to maintain his standing at home. But he did not press the issue, and American leaders reassured him about American fealty to the ``one China'' policy. The Chinese seem prepared to sidestep the Taiwan dispute for now in the interest of better overall ties, said Bates Gill, a China expert at the Brookings Institution. ``China's leaders need good relations with the United States to achieve their larger goals,'' he said. Those goals include gaining respectability as a major world power and stable relations with Asia and the West to ensure access to capital, technology and markets. ``I think a decision has been made to put up with a great deal from Washington in order to achieve those goals, '' Gill said. 
