The Nets learned what it is like to be the Los Angeles Lakers Thursday night more than, well, the New Jersey Nets. They felt the power of hope from the NBA league office across the river. The longtime stepchildren of the metropolitan area were the favored sons of David Stern, who settled into his Continental Arena seat for the Nets' decisive fifth game against the Indiana Pacers undoubtedly thinking: Just win, baby. Which they did, 120-109, in double overtime. Commissioners do not root, at least not overtly, in the conventional sense. But common sense also tells us there are teams Stern and his counterparts in competing sports prefer to have advance for the sake of television ratings and others they would just as soon see gone in the interests of avoiding embarrassment. Exhibit A: the Charlotte Hornets, waiting to engage Thursday night's winner in the second round. Here we have the classic dangerous floater in the draw, a versatile team that was hampered during the regular season by injuries but one with the capability to make it all the way to the NBA finals from an Eastern Conference with no Laker-like favorite. Running concurrent with the Hornets as they ousted Orlando in the first round are the forces of estrangement, as the franchise moves toward divorce from a city that not all that long ago had a ravenous appetite for professional hoops. Based on a forfeit of owner credibility by George Shinn and Ray Wooldridge and Charlotte's refusal to deliver the standard pro sports welfare package in the form of a publicly financed arena, the Hornets are one sneaker out the door, on their way to New Orleans. The Charlotte fans, as evidenced to date by their meager attendance record, beat the Hornets out of the building by several months in their less-expensive footwear. What a fiasco-in-the-making Stern could have on his hands. ``Disappointed at the prospective end of the Hornets' run in Charlotte,'' he said, describing his mood when asked about the recommendation made Thursday by the league's relocation committee that the franchise move to New Orleans. He proceeded to sing the requisite praises for the New Orleans welcoming committee and the city's promises related to luxury suites and the like and then, for Charlotte's information, he said it might some day get another team if a new building should happen to appear. Now imagine coach Paul Silas leading the Hornets to the finals, and the resulting scene at the Charlotte Coliseum. Will anyone come? Will the NBA have to import an army of acting Hornets' fans to fill in the empty sections so visible on television in the Magic series? Will the disenfranchised storm the arena, attracted not only by the event but the opportunity to unload a heartfelt commentary on a sad chapter reflecting the rapacious nature of professional sports? The YankeeNets Nets have not reached this advanced stage of municipal myopia in their own attempts to escape the dowdy Continental Arena and have a new arena constructed in Newark, partly financed by a state that is billions in debt. The Nets are not leaving New Jersey; they are only threatening to if renewed efforts for the Newark project by Gov. James McGreevey should fail. Given the news media frenzy that will feed off more Hornets' success, New Jersey and all the imperfections inherent from a quarter century of general Nets' nuttiness was the far more palatable finals venue for Stern. New Jersey, Boston, Philadelphia, Detroit, Toronto _ anyone still alive in the East as of Thursday night _ and any team but the Charlotte/New Orleans Hornets, who Stern, no offense and no matter what he was saying for public consumption, has to be hoping will soon buzz off. ``It won't be embarrassing,'' Stern said, imagining the finals in Charlotte. ``It won't be delicate. It would be ironic.'' More ironic was Stern in the house at a Nets' playoff game, with a real interest in the outcome. For years, New Jersey was a nowhere franchise, inconveniently housed due west of Stern's corporate room with a view. For years, he lobbied to separate them from the fractious former owners who couldn't remember if their arena-by-the-turnpike was located at 16W or 16E. Finally came the current group, the change of fortune thanks, most of all, to the point man Jason Kidd. Finally, after a team-record 52 regular-season victories, on the 13th day of a series custom-made for the television masters, came Game 5, the Nets the big show in the metropolitan area, the Knicks long gone, and the league office repeating like a mantra that there would be nothing more beautiful than springtime in the swamp, when the alternative is where its name is mud. 
