BC-KOREA-HYNIX-NYT (moved Tuesday, April 30) A New York Times News Service article about large takeover deals in South Korea misstated the ranking of Daewoo Motor, whose main assets are being acquired by General Motors. It is the third largest automaker in the country, behind Hyundai and Kia, not the fourth. BC-OBIT-DeHARAK-NYT (moved Monday, April 29) A New York Times News Service obituary about the designer Rudolph de Harak misstated the name of the group that honored him with a lifetime achievement award in 1993. It was the American Institute of Graphic Arts, not Artists. A picture caption referred incorrectly to his work on the covers of McGraw-Hill paperbacks, including ``Personality and Psychotherapy.'' He designed the covers; the covers did not just incorporate his designs. BC-OBIT-GEORGES-NYT (moved Thursday, April 25) A New York Times News Service obituary about the painter Paul Georges on Friday misstated his wife's middle name. She is Lisette Blumenfeld Georges, not Blumenthal. BC-ARMENIAN-MUSEUM-NYT (moved Tuesday, April 23) A New York Times News Service article about plans to build an Armenian Genocide Museum and Memorial in Washington referred incorrectly to the history of the term ``genocide'' in official American use. Presidents have indeed applied the word to the massacre of Armenians in Ottoman Turkey in 1915. Ronald Reagan used it in 1981, and George Bush and Bill Clinton used it when they were candidates, before taking office. BC-TV-ECONOMY-REVIEW-NYT (moved Tuesday, April 2) A New York Times News Service review of the PBS mini-series ``Commanding Heights'' included erroneous credits supplied by the producers. Parts 1 and 2 were produced and directed by William Cran and Part 3 by Greg Barker _ not by Daniel Yergin and Sue Lena Thompson, who were executive producers for the series. Part 3 was also written by Barker; Yergin and Cran wrote only Parts 1 and 2. BC-HOLLYWOOD-FILM-REVIEW-NYT (moved Tuesday, April 30) A New York Times News Service review about Woody Allen's ``Hollywood Ending'' misspelled the given name of the composer and pianist to whose crunching notes the movie's one-liners were compared. He was Thelonious Monk, not Theolonious. 
