Grief, celebration mix as family, fans say goodbye EDS: PHOTOS AVAILABLE. c. 2002 Cox News Service ATLANTA _ Lisa ``Left Eye'' Lopes, the rapping social conscience of TLC, the top-selling female music group of all time, was eulogized and buried Thursday amid poignant tributes and a rousing musical performance by three young women injured in the wreck that killed her. More than 10,000 mourners attended the funeral at New Birth Missionary Baptist Church in Lithonia, Ga. They ranged from pop music glitterati such as Whitney Houston and Janet Jackson to former Atlanta Mayor Bill Campbell to everyday fans who skipped school or work. It was a day of grief and celebration, mourning and reflection, as Atlanta said goodbye to one of its favorite, headline-making pop stars. It began with traffic jams clogging streets leading from the interstate to the church, as idolizing fans began lining up hours before the noontime service. It ended toward dusk, after a private burial service, with hundreds of spectators standing outside the cemetery trying to get a glimpse of A-list stars in attendance and, perhaps, one last image of the simple but elegant white casket carrying their beloved ``Left Eye.'' ``She was a loving person and everybody related to her songs,'' said Shara London, 18, a student at Heritage High School in Conyers, Ga. Speakers at the two-hour-plus ``homegoing'' portrayed Lopes as a creative, complex and misunderstood person who died just as she was finding herself. The rapper, 30, was killed last week when she wrecked her rented sport utility vehicle while on vacation in Honduras. Arista Records President Antonio ``L.A.'' Reid called Lopes a woman of passion who earned her many labels _ bold, innovative, difficult. ``They all fit,'' he said. ``She was difficult for the right reasons. Her creativity never stopped.'' The Rev. Sherman Washington, a friend of the Lopes family, delivered personal messages to Lisa's sister, Raina, and brother, Ronald. Then he addressed surviving TLC members Tionne ``T-Boz'' Watkins and Rozonda ``Chilli'' Thomas. ``Take what she gave you and use it so that people will know you're a product of three,'' he told them. ``Lisa gave you more than she gave anyone.'' Bishop Eddie Long, pastor of New Birth Missionary, where Watkins is a member, delivered the main eulogy and addressed the sometimes celebratory nature of Thursday's service, at which videos were shown and choir members wore bright shirts. ``It would be a mockery of her life if we didn't celebrate,'' Long said, as Lopes' white casket, adorned with silver handles, small carved angels on each corner and gold script, rested front and center in the circular sanctuary, awash in candlelight and packed with flowers. One rectangular arrangement spelled out ``Left Eye'' in red roses on a bed of white carnations. A satin sash at the bottom read, ``Rest in Peace.'' At the request of her mother, Wanda Lopes, the gospel duo Mary Mary sang one of Lopes' favorite songs: ``Shackles (Praise You).'' ``This is a celebration, y'all, so put your hands together,'' the singers said. Lopes' brother, Ronald, recounted a thought he had as Lopes lay dying in his arms en route to the hospital in Honduras. ``I was holding her head and her hand, waiting for the first signal of a pulse,'' he said. ``I just kept hearing Lisa in my head (saying), `Energy doesn't die, it just transforms.''' The Rev. Bernice King, daughter of civil rights legend Martin Luther King Jr., read a prayer. Although the service drew many megastars of the R&AMP;B and hip-hop worlds _ Dallas Austin, Bobby Brown, Jermaine Dupri, Kenneth ``Babyface'' Edmonds, Alicia Keys, record label mogul Suge Knight, Monica and Usher _ three relative unknowns provided the most dramatic moment. Members of the singing group Egypt were among the nine passengers injured in the wreck that killed Lopes. Midway through the service, three of them _ bandaged and bruised, one on crutches, one wearing a back brace _ were helped to the altar to sing. (The fourth member remains in Honduras recovering from the accident.) They gathered around a lectern and performed an a capella gospel medley by Destiny's Child called ``Thank You,'' and brought the church to its feet. After the funeral ended at 2:30, family and friends numbering about 200 arrived at the cemetery, Hallandale Memorial Gardens in Lithonia, in a procession of hearses, stretch SUVs, limousines and one deluxe bus carrying 30 to 40 mourners. A crowd of onlookers pressed into the street at the sight of the funeral cortege, only to be pushed back by DeKalb County police officers. In a business with a history of bright lights dimmed by tragic accidents, Lopes' death was merely the latest. And like the others, the celebration of her life ended quietly. The burial service lasted about an hour before her casket was lowered into the ground and covered over. On the casket's top is an inscription that is likely to be her legacy, a snippet of the rap break in TLC's single biggest hit, ``Waterfalls.'' ``Dreams are hopeless aspirations in hopes of coming true; believe in yourself, the rest is up to me and you.'' Report by the staff of The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
