Jack Kasarjian and Dave Adamczyk complement each other, like yin and yang, salt and pepper, rama-lama and ding-dong. Kasarjian is the excitable, enthusiastic salesman, Adamczyk the quieter, calmer engineer who would rather let his partner do most of the talking. ``I'm used to wearing all the hats and making sure everything is being take care of at same time,'' Kasarjian said. ``The nuts and bolts are things he can sink teeth into, whereas my vision is more global and how to move the company forward.'' They are longtime friends, successful with their individual exploits, such as when each started his own baseball equipment company. When they merged, there was no hostile takeover, just potential for greater success. Kasarjian and Adamczyk, Westlake Village residents, started Tuff Bats, a company that makes custom-ordered maple wood bats, the X Bat. In less than six months, business has boomed to about 3,000 orders each month at $60 per bat. Area high school students, various colleges and universities, men's amateur wood-bat leagues and even local major-leaguers, including Mike Lieberthal of the Phillies and Jeff Cirillo of the Mariners, have placed orders. They like the sales pitch Kasarjian and Adamczyk have given: For a competitive price, you can have as many long-lasting maple bats as you would like, in any color you'd like. You'll get your order within two weeks, and all bats will be made exactly the same way, which isn't always possible with maple bats. ``I'm amazed this has gone from a toy to a business,'' Kasarjian said. Call it a passion for their work. Both are baseball fans with sons who play. Tyler Adamczyk pitched at Westlake High and is now in the Cardinals organization. Kris Kasarjian plays at Notre Dame High School in Sherman Oaks. Kasarjian got Adamczyk into the business, and the two had competing Web sites, Flaming Baseball.com and TuffBats.com, and decided to combine forces. ``We saw a niche in the market, and we made an impact like you wouldn't believe,'' Adamczyk said. Of course, it took work. They spent time at Kasarjian's house coming up with the right color schemes, logo design and extra touches such as the American flag on each bat. The two needed the right wood, a distributor and a factory. Research revealed a straight-grain, hard maple (rather than the soft maple featured in a recent Sports Illustrated article) vacuum-dried a certain way was best. Thanks to the Internet, they found Roland Hernandez, an online lumber salesman in Madison, Wis., and Dick Johnson, owner/president of Glacial Wood Products in Brooten, Minn. ``Jack's obviously an aggressive entrepreneur,'' Johnson said. ``We ended up with a marriage. We produce, they sell. Jack and I have gone through getting to know one another. I've certainly gained respect for him.'' Then, with bats in hand, they visited various Major League Baseball spring-training facilities. They also thumbed through their Rolodexes and fueled the word-of-mouth fire. Lieberthal, who played at Westlake High School, works out locally in the off-season. He got hold of a bat, ordered a dozen and took those to spring training. In one exhibition game, seven Phillies used the bat. Lieberthal was pictured with an X Bat in the Sports Illustrated baseball preview issue. In his first at-bat of the season, he hit a double. ``The model I'm using now, it lasts longer than normal ash (wood),'' Lieberthal said. ``Louisville (Slugger) doesn't make the same model in maple.'' Matt Franco, a Thousand Oaks High graduate in the Atlanta Braves organization, saw what Lieberthal did with the bat and wanted six of his own. Jay Gibbons of the Orioles ordered two dozen, then ordered two dozen more before he received the first shipment. ``They're hard, they don't break,'' said Cirillo, a Providence High of Burbank graduate who also has been pictured in SI with an X Bat. ``They're tough, and that's what you want. It's a good product.'' Ed Campaniello, an Agoura High graduate, has pinned his hopes of getting out of the independent leagues to the X Bat. He also likes the bats so much, he helps sell them. ``I like Jack. I'm sure he's excited to get the ball in the big leagues as fast as he has,'' said Campaniello, who plays for the Camden River Sharks of the Atlantic League. ``Jack's a good guy. He knew everything about the maple in the bat, the differences in the maple and white ash. He's real knowledgeable. He made me feel this isn't a maple company that's going to pop up and disappear overnight.'' It's more than just the pros who are interested. University of California, Los Angeles, softball coach Sue Enquist bought a fungo. Programs such as Louisiana State University ordered bats in their school colors. An article in the St. Cloud, Minn., newspaper about Glacial Wood Products led to a 500-team men's league ordering 4,000 bats. The Twins also called, and Johnson referred the team to Kasarjian. It hasn't been completely smooth, however. Adamczyk's dream of Jose Canseco hitting his 500th career home run with an X Bat was dashed when the Expos released Canseco earlier this month. Now that Canseco has signed a minor-leauge contract with the White Sox, Adamczyk can hope again. Major League Baseball limits the colors of bats, and the commissioner's office requested that the bat have its silver band shortened, which Kasarjian did. The Pirates don't want the flag on their bats, but the Phillies do. And not everyone likes maple because it doesn't make that familiar ``crack'' sound. Maple bats hitting baseballs sound like a dull thud. For now, though, the profits -- as much as $69,000 a month -- are reinvested in the company for more publicity, streamlining the production and searching for new wood supplies. Everyone's in place to make it happen. ``Nobody buys the volume of wood that Jack buys,'' Hernandez said. ``We're getting to be a well-oiled machine.'' With two complementary types at the helm.  XXX 
