 Prestige Cognac can be a budget-busting overindulgence or a luxury beverage to be sipped and savored when you want to treat yourself to the very best. But it can't be both. Cognac is a wood-aged spirit distilled from white wine. For those who drink California brandy from a liter jug, luxury Cognac is an oxymoron. But Cognac cognoscenti understand that the world's premier grape brandy has different grades of quality and complexity, topping out at prestige or luxury. Hennessy, one of France's top brandy houses, has taken the concept of prestige Cognacs and added a few grades of its own. Like other Cognac houses, Hennessy starts with Three Star (V.S.), moves to V.S.O.P. (Very Superior Old Pale), through Napoleon, to the added flavor complexity of X.O. (Extra Old) and then to Paradis, an extended wood-aged top-end Cognac, sold in a crystal decanter bottle. In a move that brackets Paradis with two equally good but different prestige Cognacs, Hennessy has added Private Reserve Grande Champagne and Richard Hennessy. The Paradis, perhaps the region's most famous luxury Cognac, is named for the special aging cellar where very old brandies are stored in large glass demijohns, having come out of oak barrels before an excess of wood overpowers the remaining fruit. Grande Champagne is the vineyard heart of the Cognac region. The vineyards of Cognac radiate out from the city of Cognac in a series of irregular concentric semicircles, with Grande Champagne at the center. Grande Champagne takes its name from the belief that the vines were planted on Campanian chalk. The next zone out is Petite Champagne, then Borderie and finally, surrounding the Champagnes is Fins Bois. At one time, the Folle Blanche grape was widely planted in the Cognac region, but it became too disease prone, so most of it was grafted over to Ugni Blanc, also known as Trebbiano, the workhorse white grape of Italy. The new Hennessy Prestige range of Cognacs consists of the following: Hennessy Private Reserve Grande Champagne ($150) is a blend of eaux de vie from the Grande Champagne. Private Reserve indicates a further selection of 14 eaux de vie from Hennessy's private collection. The color is light amber, with aromas of vanilla, spice and ripe figs. The flavors are deep and honeyed with creamy vanilla notes and a warm toasty finish. Private Reserve is a delicate brandy with great finesse and depth. Hennessy Paradis Extra ($330) is a blend of more than 100 eaux de vie, mainly from Grande Champagne and Petite Champagne, some dating back to 1870. With a newly designed decanter/ bottle, this noted luxury Cognac added ``Extra'' to its name. Paradis Extra has a deep golden color with a coppery tint. The layered nose shows hints of dried fruit, butterscotch, pepper and cinnamon. While the flavors are mature, they are not over-oaked, but show great depth, complexity and silky texture, topped by a warm nuttiness. Hennessy Richard Hennessy, ($1,500), named for the founder of Hennessy Cognac, is a blend of the best Folle Blanche eaux de vie from the Hennessy cellar, mainly from Grande Champagne, but supplemented by select lots from Petite Champagne, Borderies and Fins Bois. It has deep-set aromas and flavors of dried fruit, vanilla, hazelnuts and rancio, a unique character derived from extended wood aging. The flavors are seamless and smooth, with great length. Richard Hennessy is the ne plus ultra Cognac of the house of Hennessy. The Hennessy Prestige Cognacs were tasted at Gary Danko restaurant in San Francisco, but the Cognacs are available throughout the Bay Area in limited quantities at other restaurants and fine wine shops. If price is a consideration, try the slightly more affordable Hennessy X.O. at $125. More on Cognac Pierre Frapin, a family-owned firm, is one of few distillers in Cognac to own all of its own vineyards. Frapin's 741-acre domain includes 500 acres of vineyards in Grande Champagne. Frapin is known for its elegant extended-aged Cognacs that fit in style between the fuller brandies of Hennessy and the lighter Delamain. Recently, Frapin added three excellent new Grande Champagne Cognacs, including: Chateau Fontpinot X.O. Grande Champagne 1er Cru du Cognac ($95); V.S.O.P Grande Champagne 1er Cru du Cognac ($49); and V.S. Luxe Grande Champagne 1er Cru du Cognac ($35). These three Frapin Cognacs join two luxury styles, VIP X.O. ($159) and Extra Grande Champagne 1er Cru du Cognac ($450), in the Frapin line. Single malt news Wine lovers who enjoy an occasional dram of spirits, grape or grain, find a lot to like about single malt Scotch whisky. Thus, it was welcome news that one of Scotland's classic malts, Bruichladdich (Brook-laddie), from the island of Islay (Eye-la), was back on line under the guidance of Jim McEwan, former master distiller for Bowmore, also on Islay. Bruichladdich, a sophisticated malt whisky with great depth and complexity, ceased operations in the early 1990s. The new bottlings will include 10, 15 and 20 Year Old single malts. Another new entry is Glenmorangie Cote de Nuits Wood Finish Single Malt ($300). The newest wood-finish malt, from this noted Northern Highland distillery, was distilled in 1975, aged in wood and finished its maturation in French oak barrels that had previously held a grand cru Burgundy from the Cote de Nuits. Other Glenmorangie wood finish single malts include: Sherry, Port, Madeira, Claret and Fino Sherry. St. George Spirits, the Bay Area distiller in Alameda known for its eau de vie, has added a single malt whiskey. St. George Lot 2 Single Malt Whiskey ($43) is light and delicate with subtle smoky notes, reminiscent of a lighter Lowland single malt like Rosebank. Lot 2 is available throughout the Bay Area. 
