African-Americans and Hispanics participate in AIDS drug trials at rates substantially lower than whites, losing out on treatments that can add years to patients' lives, according to a study that provides fresh evidence of a dramatic health care divide in the United States. The results are detailed in Thursday's New England Journal of Medicine. They were released as the AIDS epidemic increasingly pervades African-American and Hispanic communities. A report scheduled to be released Friday by the AIDS Action Committee of Massachusetts shows that blacks and Hispanics in the state are four times more likely to be infected with the virus than whites. The reasons for the gap in access to HIV medication trials are as complex as the epidemic itself, ranging from patient fears fostered by the legacy of racist experiments in the 20th century to physician biases regarding which patients are most likely to take their medication. ``This certainly seems to be part of a picture emerging in many different studies regarding racial and ethnic disparities in access to health care,'' said Dr. Allen Gifford, an author of the study and an internist at the Veterans Affairs San Diego Healthcare System. ``I am by no means a lone voice crying out on this.'' Gifford's study is the latest to detail how race and ethnicity influence access to medical services and follows a landmark Harvard report in March that showed blacks were less likely to get adequate care in key areas, such as breast cancer screening or preventive drugs after a heart attack. The California researchers reviewed interviews with nearly 2,900 HIV patients from 1996 to 1998. They found that while blacks accounted for 33 percent of patients receiving HIV treatment, they constituted only 23 percent of adults in trials. Hispanics made up 15 percent of patients and 11 percent of trial participants. By contrast, whites accounted for slightly less than half of the patients, but more than three-fifths of those in medication trials. The researchers also discovered that patients in health-maintenance organizations were less likely to be enrolled in drug trials than those with more traditional medical insurance. ``The magnitude of these differences is very concerning,'' said Dr. John Ayanian, an internist and health policy researcher at Harvard Medical School. ``The pervasiveness of the problem is capturing people's attention and creating a strong interest in reducing and eliminating these disparities.'' The problem traces at least to the first half of the 20th century, a time when researchers sometimes exploited the poor and the marginalized. The most infamous episode was the Tuskegee Syphilis Study, when scientists told black patients that they were being treated for the infection when, in some cases, they were not. That history persuades some patients to take no part in modern medical testing. That is true among African-Americans, as well as Hispanics. Magnolia Contreras ran the HIV program at the community health center in Lynn in the early 1990s. She said that when she broached the possibility of enrolling in drug trials, the response was swift and definitive by Hispanic patients. ``They would look at me like I had two heads,'' said Contreras, now policy director at AIDS Action. ``They didn't want to feel like they were guinea pigs.'' AIDS drug trials, just like any medical experiment, come with risks. But trials in the early days of AIDS were, in many ways, more perilous than those conducted now. Today's trials involve reformulations of medications already known to work well. For instance, researchers at Community Research Initiative, with branches in Boston and Springfield, are trying a four-tablet cocktail that can be taken just once a day, right before bed. All four drugs are on the market, so the drug trial represents combining different doses in a way designed to reduce the burden of AIDS drug regimens. Already, researchers from Boston to Miami are marshaling medical forces to fill studies with patients more representative of the AIDS epidemic. That means opening clinics where patients live. It means having doctors available when patients are available, after work and after school. For doctors, it means examining their own assumptions about patients and about their ability to comply with treatment regimes. ``And you have to listen,'' said Dr. Margaret Fischl, the University of Miami researcher who has overseen more than 100 AIDS drug trials. ``We come from the point of view that the patients need to be informed enough so that they can make decisions they're comfortable with.'' The urgency of expanding the pool of AIDS drug study participants extends beyond the potential benefits for individual patients. Having a skewed trial population also affects the scientific merit of drug tests: To best understand how medicines work and how they don't, researchers need participants who reflect the face of the epidemic. ``That's what's so dramatic about participating in research,'' said Dr. Calvin Cohen, research director for the Community Research Initiative and Harvard Vanguard Medical Associates. ``You share your experience with everyone else who could benefit from the knowledge you provide.'' Stephen Smith can be reached at stsmith(at)globe.com. 
