FOR THURSDAY AMs 	Here are today's top news stories from The New York Times News Service for AMs of Thursday, May 2. 	For the latest photos and graphics from The New York Times, go to www.nytimages.com. 	INTERNATIONAL (``i'' code) 	The Middle East 	MIDEAST (Ramallah, West Bank) _ A ledeall: Yasser Arafat has apparently reached an agreement with American and British officials that would pave the way for his release from his compound, though it is uncertain if he will emerge Wednesday. Other developments, on the U.N. Jenin mission and at the standoff in Bethlehem. (Staff byline TK) 	MIDEAST-U.N (United Nations) _ Mideast development at the United Nations. By John Kifner. 	Terror 	AFGHAN (Khost, Afghanistan) _ Developing. Two senior Afghan commanders here said Wednesday that they had been involved in six commando operations in the past three weeks, each involving hundreds of American and British soldiers. While these large operations have netted a respectable amount of weapons and ammunition, they have not managed to kill any Qaida soldiers and have arrested but two suspects. By Barry Bearak. 	AFGHAN-RAID (Bagram Air Base, Afghanistan) _ American soldiers described Wednesday the scene in a village they raided during their hunt for al-Qaida fighters. By Carlotta Gall. 	Other International 	FRANCE-PROTESTS (Paris) _ More than 400,000 protesters _ for and against Jean-Marie Le Pen _ took to the streets Wednesday during May Day protests. By Suzanne Daley. 	BRITAIN-ELECT (Burnley, England) _ A look at the local elections here, where the far-right British National Party is looking to gain some seats on Thursday. By Sarah Lyall. 	CHINA-U.S. (Washington) _ China's vice president Hu Jintao is scheduled to meet President Bush on Wednesday. (Staff byline to come) 	With 	CHINA-U.S.-RECEPTION (Washington) _ In his first visit to the U.S. this week, the man expected to become China's next supreme leader has been warmly greeted by the titans of American finance, industry and politics, all of them anxious to size up the enigmatic vice president and to impress upon him the benefits of closer economic ties. 900. 	WORLD-BRIEFS (Undated) _ World news in brief. 	WASHINGTON (``w'' code) 	CONGRESS-TRADE (Washington) _ Congress debates trade. By Alison Mitchell. 	CONGRESS-DRUGS (Washington) _ The congressional battle over prescription drugs begins in earnest as House Republicans and Senate Democrats roll out competing proposals to offer Medicare drug benefits to the elderly. By Robert Pear. 	NATIONAL GENERAL (``a'' code) 	MISSING-GIRL (Kansas City) _ Almost exactly a year ago, the nude, decapitated body of an unidentified girl was found in Kansas City. The police launched one of their extensive investigations ever. The community, which named her Precious Doe, was haunted by the case. Now her identity may be known as police wait to see whether she is a Florida girl who recently discovered to have been been missing for 15 months, even though state officials were supposed to be monitoring her whereabouts. By Jody Wilgoren and Dana Canedy. 	TRUCKS-MEXICO (Undated) _ A group of environmental, labor and industry organizations filed suit Wednesday to block the Bush administration's plan to let Mexican trucks travel the nation's highways, saying the environmental impact of the move was not adequately addressed. By Steven Greenhouse. 	LINDBERGH-REDUX (Farmingdale, N.Y.) _ Charles Lindbergh's grandson, Erik, took off Wednesday from not-quite-the same place as his grandfather did in 1927 in an effort to recreate Charles Lindbergh's crossing of the Atlantic. By Bruce Lambert. 	NATIONAL-BRIEFS (Undated) _ National news in brief. 	SCIENCE (``a'' code) 	SCI-AIDS-BLACKS (Washington) _ Blacks get less access than whites to clinical trials for HIV drugs, the New England Journal of Medicine reports. By Sheryl Gay Stolberg. 	SCI-ROBOTIC-RATS (Undated) _ Scientists train rats to act like robots. By Kenneth Chang. 	FINANCIAL (``f'' code) 	WORLDCOM (Undated) _ On Worldcom's strategy for a turnaround, including daily developments. By Barnaby J. Feder. 	GERMANY-LABOR (Frankfurt, Germany) _ Germany is facing its first wave of strikes since 1995, actions that could derail an emerging economic recovery and may hurt the re-election prospects for Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder's government. The powerful I.G. Metall union says that it will begin strikes on Monday that are expected to be aimed at manufacturing giants like DaimlerChrylser and Siemens. By Edmund L. Andrews. 	KOREA-HYNIX (Seoul, South Korea) _ The day after it rejected a deal with Micron Technologies to sell its memory-chip business, Hynix Semiconductor says it wants to sell everything else to pay off debt. Creditor banks, annoyed at the Micron rejection, say no new bailouts will be forthcoming, and the finance minister, equally peeved, tells Hynix it is on its own now. By Don Kirk. 	SUN-RETIRE (San Francisco) _ Sun Microsystems says that Ed Zander, 55, its president and chief operating officer, will retire, the latest in a series of executive changes at the company. Scott McNealy, the chief executive, will take over Zander's duties. By Chris Gaither. 	AIG-APPOINT (Undated) _ American International Group sets in place a potential succession plan, naming Martin Sullivan and Edmund Tse co-chief operating officers and forming an office of the chairman with seven executives. By Joseph B. Treaster. 	AUTO-SALES (Detroit) _ Automakers report their April sales, as pricing incentives begin to change. General Motors said late Tuesday that it was eliminating zero-percent financing but will increase cash rebates on a number of vehicles by $1,000. By Danny Hakim. 	MAGAZINE-AWARDS (Undatd) _ The winners of the National Magazine Awards will be announced Wednesday, but the magazine industry has little reason to celebrate. The slump in advertising spending has roiled magazines, and some have folded. A look at whether the awards, the Ellies, give the magazines any sort of boost; looking at the economics and politics of the awards. By David Carr. 	CONGRESS-DOLLAR (Washington) _ Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill and a variety of economists and interest groups are scheduled to testify before the Senate Banking Committee on whether the dollar is overvalued, a question getting increased scrutiny as the United States' current account deficit hits worrisome levels. By Richard W. Stevenson. 	MARKETPLACE (Undated) _ The daily marketplace column. 	KMART-OUTLOOK (Undated) _ Kmart says that it needs more time for its new management to prepare its 2001 annual report, but warns that losses in that year will be significantly higher than its loss of $244 million a year ago. 	CREW-RESIGN (Undated) _ J.Crew Group says its chief executive, Mark Sarvary, has left. 	GOOGLE (Undated) _ Google's fortunes take a huge leap as AOL Time Warner drops Overture in favor of Google's search engine. The AOL agreement is expected to be a prelude to an IPO filing by Google. 	TECH-BRIEFS (Undated) _ Technology news in brief. 	NEWSPAPER-CIRCULATION (Undated) _ The Audit Bureau of Circulations releases its latest six-month figures on newspaper circulation, the first that will break out bulk sales as a separate category. By Felicity Barringer. 	ECONSCENE (Undated) _ The weekly Economic Scene column. By Alan B. Krueger. 	WORLD-BIZ-BRIEFS (Undated) _ Short items on business news from around the world. 	COMMENTARY (``k'' code) 	Op-Ed columns by William Safire and Bob Herbert. 	MOVING LATER: 	AM-ADD-NYT-BUDGET _ A rundown of culture, lifestyle, sports, and special section stories will move by 3:00 p.m. ET. 	AM-PAGE1-NYT-CONSIDER _ A list of stories being considered by New York Times editors for Page 1 will move at 4:30 p.m. 	AM-EARLY-FRONTPAGE-NYT _ Stories scheduled for Page 1 will be listed by 7 p.m. 	AM-FRONTPAGE-NYT _ A description of the front page layout of the first edition of The New York Times will move at 7:30 p.m. 	QUESTIONS OR RERUNS: (888) 346-9867 or (212) 556-1927: 	The day supervisor is Gary E. McCardell (E-mail, garymc(at)nytimes.com). 	The evening supervisor is Pat Ryan (E-mail, patryan(at)nytimes.com). 	The late supervisor is Ray Krueger (E-mail, krueger(at)nytimes.com). 	PHOTOS AND GRAPHICS: 	The Photo-Graphics editor is Sergio Florez 	Phone: (888) 603-1036 	E-mail: florez(at)nytimes.com 	TECHNICAL PROBLEMS: 	Berris Anderson 	(212) 499-3337, berris(AT)nytimes.com 	e-mail to pager: page-berris(AT)nytimes.com 	numeric page: 1-800-759-8888 pin 1066839 	or 	Harry Brindley 	(212) 499-3304, harryb(AT)nytimes.com 	e-mail to pager: harryb(AT)nytimes.com 	numeric page: 1-888-710-8736 	NEW YORK TIMES PARTNERS: 	Please note that your New York Times News Service report includes news and features from The Arizona Republic, The Boston Globe, Cox News Service, The Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Hearst Newspapers, The Houston Chronicle, The Kansas City Star, The Los Angeles Daily News, The San Francisco Chronicle, The Seattle Post-Intelligencer, States News Service and the New York Times Regional Newspapers. 	(Editors: All clients receive all budgets, but only full-service clients receive all stories. Please check your level of service to determine which stories you will receive.) 
