Since 1985, Shug McGaughey has trained for the Phipps family, the most prominent owners in New York racing. Last week, Ogden Phipps, the family's patriarch, passed away at the age of 93. Ogden was active in the racing operation until shortly before his death, and this has been a dark time for his daughter, Cynthia, and his son, Dinny. However, Saarland, who is owned by Cynthia and will be a force in Saturday's Kentucky Derby, has cast a bright light through the gloom. And both Cynthia and Dinny will be at Churchill Downs to watch the bay colt run. ``This has been a very sentimental time for us,'' said McGaughey Wednesday. ``The Phippses are a very unique family, and they are coming here excited. They'll come here with a very upbeat attitude.'' Ogden Phipps, an investment banker, was the son of Mrs. Henry Carnegie Phipps, who founded Wheatley Stables in the 1920s, and campaigned Bold Ruler, a top racehorse and one of the greatest sires of all time. He was elected to The Jockey Club at the age of 30, was chairman of that prestigious organization from 1964-74, and was trustee emeritus of the New York Racing Association at the time of his death. Ogden owned nine champions, including Buckpasser, easily among the top 20 horses of the last century. Buckpasser was the champion 2-year-old of '65 and, the following year, he was 3-year-old and handicap champion, as well as Horse of the Year. He would be better remembered had he won the Kentucky Derby, as was expected, but he was injured before the race and did not compete. Despite owning Buckpasser, Ogden always said that his biggest thrill in racing was winning the 1989 Belmont Stakes with Easy Goer, the Eclipse Award-winning juvenile of '88 who was beaten by Sunday Silence in both the Derby and the Preakness. Easy Goer, who was trained by McGaughey, earned a measure of revenge when he crushed Sunday Silence by 8 lengths in the Belmont. ``I wish we had won the Derby in '89,'' said McGaughey, who is 0 for 5 in the Rose Run. ``That's the time we would have really enjoyed winning. I've won a lot of big races and trained a lot of champions (seven), but there's nothing like the Derby. I was 38 at the time I had Easy Goer, and I hadn't been here with that type of horse. I learned a lot about how to handle those situations. ``This ought to be a fun time. I'm not sure I had a good time with Easy Goer. If Sunday Silence hadn't been there we would have won the Triple Crown. But Saturday will be a hell of a day.'' McGaughey, 51, is a true Kentucky hardboot, having been born in Lexington, breeding country in the Blue Grass State, and he would dearly love to capture the Derby. ``I saw my first one in person in 1987 (won by Alysheba), and I've participated in three of them (McGaughey twice ran an entry) and seen a whole bunch more,'' he said. ``I thought '89 could be our year, but it would be great to win a Derby any time.'' In a year when the stamina of the entrants in the mile and one-quarter Derby is more in question than usual, Saarland is one of the few who has no distance limitations. He is by Unbridled, earner of $4.4 million, who won the 1990 Derby and Breeders' Cup Classic, both at 10 furlongs, out of Versailles Treaty, earner of $1.2 million, and winner of the Alabama, and twice second in the Breeders' Cup Distaff, all at 10 furlongs. ``I feel good about that part of it,'' said McGaughey. ``The distance will be to our advantage. He wants to run a mile and one-quarter. Heck, he wants to run a mile and one-half, and that will work in our favor.'' Saarland ran eighth at 21-1 in last year's Breeders' Cup Juvenile in October, but redeemed himself with a victory in the Remsen at Aqueduct Nov. 24. The Remsen is the only major stake for 2-year-olds run at 9 furlongs in the United States, and it put Saarland on the Kentucky Derby map. This season, Saarland was not ready for the Florida Derby March 13, and did not get to run at all at Gulfstream because the racing department could not get an allowance race to fill if Saarland was entered. He finally made his 3-year-old debut in the Gotham at Aqueduct March 17, and closed well to be second behind Mayakovsky, a speed horse. He then ran an uninspiring fourth in the Wood Memorial April 13, but he had an excuse because he displaced his soft palate during the contest. He was operated on April 17, with Dr. Mark Cheney performing a 10-minute procedure in the horse's stall at Belmont that corrected the problem. ``His last work at Belmont (a best of the day :47 1/5 for 4 furlongs April 22) was fast, and he'd never done that before,'' said McGaughey. ``When I worked him here (5 furlongs in 1:02 April 29), he did his last eighth in :11 2/5, and I liked that. I think his attention is better now. The procedure does have a psychological effect on them; it improves them mentally. He's more aggressive in his training. He's got his ears up now.'' 
