Like the weather in some temperate areas, if you don't like the latest economic report, just wait a bit and another will likely come along that is more pleasing. As we try and get a handle on just what last week's stratospheric gross domestic product numbers mean - if they mean anything at all - more evidence is available that the economy is moving smartly ahead. The problem is, there is also evidence that the economy could be sliding back. First the good. The latest Chicago Fed National Activity Index, released late last week, was above zero for the second consecutive month. Before February and March numbers crept above zero, the index posted 19 straight months below that benchmark. In fact, including the January report which was only slightly below zero, the three-month rolling average for the index found positive numbers for the first time in more than a year. The Chicago Fed report found that manufacturing activity - for so long the millstone around the economy's neck - continued to expand in March. Overall, 44 of the 85 indicators used by Chicago Fed officials to compile the index displayed above average growth in March. But before you start counting those unhatched chickens, there is other economic news to consider. The Conference Board's latest Consumer Confidence Index declined moderately this month, after surging ahead in March. And while positive consumer outlook for the next six months increased, so did negative outlook. All in all, the economy continues to send mixed signals. And while the overall assessment of the economy remains overwhelmingly positive, there are still signs that there still may be something rotten in the state of the economic union. Wall Street has been on a downward slide the past several sessions, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average slipping below 10,000 again. This negativity is generally considered the result of poorer than expected quarterly earnings, despite other positive signs. But disappointing earnings are not some minor statistic. Investors, already shaken by the Enron/Arthur Andersen/Merrill Lynch/ (insert latest corporate scandal here) situations are now faced with a skittish market and analysts whose trustworthiness is suspect at best. And at the same time, those declining earnings will do little to encourage increased business fixed investment. Of course, we can ignore those bits of information that do not conform to our chosen world view that the economy is going to continue to grow and improve in the coming months, leaving that recessionary era of 2001 a distant - and fading - memory. The problem is too many investors and consumers became used to positive economic news and soaring stock prices during the boom-boom years of the 1990s. Even the dot.com meltdown of 2000 did not deter many investors. But now the situation is different. With corporate profits down and the business world being rocked by a weekly scandal, investor confidence is likely to waver - and just when corporate America could use a little push. For the past several months, as more and more analysts and ``experts'' preached the gospel of the imminent recovery, consumers blithely continued to spend, encouraged by interest-free car loans and a booming housing market. Now that the vaunted recovery has shown itself to be more modest than many might have hoped for, things could get ugly. Real ugly, real fast. Then we may all see what a real recession looks like. Aaron London writes for The Dayton Beach (Florida) News-Journal. Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
