If there was a form of government that produced autocrats who sponsored terrorism, stole millions of dollars while impoverishing their citizens, shredded public education and health, permitted child bondage, tortured dissidents and tolerated pogroms against minorities, then we would all condemn it. Except that in South Asia such a system is called democracy. That's what makes this week's election in Pakistan so fascinating. President Bush has winked as Gen. Pervez Musharraf steamrolled over a democratic system so as to maintain the army's hold on power. Bush's stance is hypocritical and threatens to undermine everything we stand for _ except that, frankly, Musharraf has done better in governing Pakistan than his democratic predecessors have. The Pakistan election has an importance beyond that country. That rigged referendum _ and our complicity in it _ raise questions about what constitutes democracy. Without much of a sense of gritty realities in the developing world, we in the West tend to regard ``democracy'' as simply elections. When trouble erupts _ in Cambodia, Somalia, East Timor, Afghanistan, Angola _ we prescribe elections, bless the result as democracy, and hurry off. ``We place an inordinate emphasis on elections alone,'' noted Sumit Ganguly, an expert on the region at the University of Texas at Austin. He notes that elections are only one element of a democracy; others include a free press, an independent judiciary and respect for minorities. Without these checks, countries can end up with elections that (as in Pakistan) are used by drug lords as a convenient way to install their pals in important offices. Once in place, they can use their power to steal money and murder critics. ``When we followed the democratic path, we got only disappointment,'' said Arif Ali Khan Abbasi, the former chief executive of Pakistan International Airways. ``At least there is a semblance of order when you get a benevolent dictator.'' That's how Washington feels as well; as a quasi-democracy, Pakistan was pretty close to a terrorist state. Then Musharraf seized power in 1999, installed himself as president in 2001 and (after 9/11, with an American gun to his head) began to turn the country away from terror and extremism. It's quite a task; a poll last fall found that 82 percent of urban Pakistanis regard Osama bin Laden as a freedom fighter. Pakistan's intelligence agency is responsible for more terrorist killings than al-Qaida. The country has been on the edge of bankruptcy, 55 percent of adults are illiterate, 10 percent of children die by the age of 5, and there are more drug addicts than college graduates. ``Prior to 9/11, all of us considered Pakistan a failing state, 5, 10 or 15 years away from collapse in one way or another,'' said Marshall Bouton, an expert on the region and president of the Chicago Council on Foreign Relations. More broadly, South Asia as a whole is both impressive in the way it has sustained democracies and depressing in how poorly the democracies have often served their citizens. Indeed, in Sri Lanka elections led to the rise of demagogues who competed for votes among the majority Sinhalese population by pledging to discriminate against the minority Tamils. They got the votes, and Sri Lanka got civil war. None of this is to argue against democracy, though, because (aside from Musharraf) military rulers in the area have been even worse. As Najam Sethi, a prominent Pakistani newspaper editor, puts it: ``Yes, the experiments with democracy have not been successful, but the experiments with military dictatorship have been disastrous.'' For that reason, Sethi and many others with whom I spoke are horrified by Musharraf's fraudulent referendum to stay in power. But I can't help thinking that Pakistan may be better off under him _ if only he will use his power to build credible democratic institutions, starting with the parliamentary elections in October. One hopeful sign is that he is instituting local councils whose members must be one-third women _ a remarkable step in a country where women often are doormats. If we are to wink at Musharraf's charade, we must at least press him to promote not just the army but also an independent judiciary, press, Parliament and other pillars of a free society. 
