Have a question about the news? Colin Bessonette will try to get an answer. Call 404-222-2002, or write him at The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, P.O. Box 4689, Atlanta, Ga. 30302, or e-mail him at q&AMP;a(at)ajc.com. Please include your name and hometown. Q: I remember reading that General Motors was going to stop making Oldsmobiles. But I keep seeing ads for them on TV. What's going on? A: The Oldsmobile division continues to be unprofitable despite ``significant marketing resources'' to reposition the brand, according to GM. So the decision was made not to update and replace current products. It is continuing, however, to produce and sell Oldsmobile products until the end of their current model life cycles, or earlier if market demand declines to the point where it becomes economically unviable. Information online: www.oldsmobile.com/. Q: A few days ago, Q&AMP;A reported that four of the five whooping cranes migrating back north from their wintering spot in Florida had made it to Wisconsin's Necedah National Wildlife Refuge. Has the fifth one gotten there yet? A: Not at last report. But Necedah spokeswoman Jennifer Rabuck told Q&AMP;A that officials anticipated the straggler would come to the refuge ``eventually.'' She said it remained ``just a little bit south'' of the refuge as of a day or two ago. She said there are no fences at the refuge, and all five cranes are able to come and go as they check out all the wetlands in the area for a suitable habitat. ``We never expected them to stay within our boundaries,'' she added. Q: A recent article said Outback Steakhouse has 2,500 restaurants. Can that be true? A: No. Stephanie Amberg, spokeswoman for Outback Steakhouse Inc., said the total number of restaurants in the company's family is 876. The breakdown: Outback Steakhouse, 663 (domestic), 78 (international); Carrabba's Italian Grill, 103; Fleming's Prime Steakhouse and Wine Bar, 13; Roy's, 13; Lee Roy Selmon's, 1; and Bonefish Grill, 5. Q: I've read that there are no commercial lodgings anywhere near President Bush's Crawford, Texas, ranch. So where do dignitaries and their entourages stay when they visit the ranch? Also, how extensive is the ranch residence? A: Waco, about 20 miles from Crawford, is the closest place with enough accommodations for visiting dignitaries, the media, military officials, members of the Secret Service and others traveling with Bush. The Bushes built their modest, one-floor, 4,000-square-foot house on the 1,583-acre Prairie Chapel Ranch after they bought the spread in 1999. David Heymann, associate dean at the University of Texas School of Architecture, designed the new house. He described it as ``startlingly small'' by marketplace standards. ``They (the Bushes) wanted a house that was very unpretentious, very straightforward, very simple.'' Constructed from a local limestone, the house has eight rooms in a long, narrow design to take advantage of views and breezes. A porch stretches across the back and both ends of the house, widening at one end into a covered patio off the living room. The large living-family room and the kitchen-dining room are designed for entertaining and large family gatherings. In addition to the master bedroom, there are bedrooms and a study for the Bushes' twin daughters. A swimming pool behind the house was built at the request of the daughters. There's also a two-bedroom guesthouse nearby for members of the extended Bush family and a small house where Secret Service agents sleep. Q: A recent article about Ozzy Osbourne mentioned his nickname is ``Prince of Darkness.'' Wasn't this also the nickname of the late jazz trumpeter Miles Davis? A: Yes. The term isn't unique to them, however. Satan is the original prince (or ruler) of darkness. Others to whom the term has been applied range from writer James M. Cain (``The Postman Always Rings Twice,'' ``Double Indemnity,'' ``Mildred Pierce'') to songwriter Jim Steinman to Dracula. Q: A saying by Winston Churchill alludes to when a man should be a liberal and when he should be a conservative. But I can't find it in a book of Churchill's famous quotations. What can you tell me about it? A: The saying basically goes like this, although there are variations: ``If you're under 35 and not a liberal, you have no heart. If you're older than 35 and not a conservative, you have no brain.'' While it's often attributed to Churchill, it's more likely an ``orphan quote,'' meaning an unattributed quote in search of a home. The Churchill Center's Winston Churchill home page (www.winstonchurchill.org/index.html) states it is not from him, and, in fact, lists it among several under this heading: ``These quotes make for good story-telling, but popular myth has falsely attributed them to Churchill.'' Only one of the well-known books of famous quotations includes it, and while it attributes it to Churchill, it states the attribution to him comes from a 1996 article in The New York Times. Variations on the quote are attributed in sources on the Internet to dramatist George Bernard Shaw; 1940 Republican presidential candidate Wendell Willkie; French socialist Premier Aristide Briand; President Woodrow Wilson; Prussian statesman Otto von Bismarck; French Premier Georges Clemenceau; British Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli; and ex-CIA Director William Casey. Q: Has it ever been determined whether the crew members of the space shuttle Challenger were alive during their descent to the ocean surface after the fuel tanks exploded? A: There are conflicting reports. NASA's position initially was that it believed the seven crew members died instantly when the shuttle broke apart shortly after launch from Cape Canaveral on Jan. 28, 1986. In July 1986, NASA released the results of its analysis showing that the crew had no inkling of the disaster. Later than month, however, NASA reversed itself and acknowledged that the astronauts had activated their emergency breathing packs, which seemed to be evidence that at least some of the crew members struggled to survive well after the explosion. The official report, made by Dr. Joseph Kerwin of NASA's Life Sciences branch on July 28, 1986, indicates that no cause of death could be determined. But in November 1988, an article in the Sunday magazine of the Miami Herald said NASA had misled a presidential commission, the public and its own employees about the astronauts' survival. The article quoted unidentified NASA sources as saying the crew members were aware of their fate for the 2 1/2 minutes it took for their compartment to crash into the ocean at 200 mph, at which point it fractured, killing them instantly. NASA denied any coverup. On its Web site, after a detailed explanation of the catastrophic sequence of events, NASA concludes: ``The explosion 73 seconds after liftoff claimed crew and vehicle.'' MORE Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
