ALABAMA Last season: 7-5, 4-4 SEC (tied for third); beat Iowa State 14-13 in Independence Bowl. Starters returning: Offense 7, Defense 8, Kicker 1. Players to watch: DE Kindal Moorhead; C Alonzo Ephraim; QB Tyler Watts (1,889 yards total offense, 15 TDs); RB Ahmaad Galloway (881 yards rushing, 6 TDs). Coach: Dennis Franchione, 145-70-2 overall, 7-5 in his second season season at Alabama. Review: Watts recovered from a late-season groin injury and held off redshirt freshman Brodie Croyle and Spencer Pennington for the starting quarterback job. Franchione, however, expanded the offense to include more downfield passing routes to take advantage of Croyle's strong arm. Alabama added A-back and W-back positions; the A-back is a hybrid tailback/receiver, and the W-back is a fullback/tight end. Redshirt freshman Freddie Roach will replace Saleem Rasheed at middle linebacker. Injuries: Several players missed part of spring drills recovering from injuries: WR Sam Collins (shoulder), DT Jarrett Johnson (knee), Moorehead (shoulder), FB Donnie Lowe (concussion). All are expected to be ready in the fall. Questions remaining: The secondary struggled last season and remains a work in progress. Three seniors return in Waine Bacon, Gerald Dixon and Hirchel Bolden, but there are indications that younger players could work their way into the lineup. Alabama is still not settled on a placekicker to replace Neal Thomas. First game: Aug. 31 vs. Middle Tennessee (Birmingham). ARKANSAS Last season: 7-5, 4-4 SEC (tied for third); lost to Oklahoma 10-3 in Cotton Bowl. Starters returning: Offense 6, Defense 7, Kicker 2. Players to watch: FS Ken Hamlin (118 tackles); OT Shawn Andrews; LB Tony Bua (109 tackles). Coach: Houston Nutt 66-40, 30-18 in his fifth year at Arkansas. Review: The Razorbacks did more contact drills than in previous seasons. Matt Jones, Ryan Sorahan and Tarvarias Jackson competed for the quarterback job but Nutt did not name a starter. Jones and Jackson, however, appear to be the favorites. Jackson impressed the coaches with his strong arm and athletic ability. He passed for 108 yards in the spring game. Transfer wide receiver Carlos Ousley, a redshirt freshman, caught 10 passes for 156 yards. Injuries: DT Jermaine Brooks sat out after shoulder surgery but will play in the fall. SE George Wilson suffered a sprained right knee and had arthroscopic surgery, but should be available for preseason practice. OLB Caleb Miller was unable to participate in several scrimmages because of a recurring groin injury. Questions remaining: Arkansas is still looking for starters on the offensive line. Brooks will return at one tackle and Raymond House will return at one end but, after that, the Hogs are not sure who will start or who will provide depth. Senior Nathan Ball, a tight end last season, was moved back to offensive guard. First game: Sept. 7 vs. Boise State AUBURN Last season: 7-5, 5-3 SEC (tied for first); lost to North Carolina 16-10 in Chick-fil-A Peach Bowl. Starters returning: Offense 6, Defense 8, Kicker 2. Players to watch: PK/P Damon Duval; LB Dontarrious Thomas (122 tackles); RB Carnell Williams (614 yards, 6 TD). Coach: Tommy Tuberville, 46-35 overall, 21-15 in his fourth year at Auburn. Review: The Tigers have new offensive (Bobby Petrino) and defensive (Gene Chizik) coordinators, so spring practice was spent teaching the players new systems. Petrino's system will emphasize the running backs and tight ends and the Tigers are deep at both positions. Sophomore TB Carnell Williams has recovered from a broken clavicle sustained late last season and had a 38-yard run in the spring game. Backup TB Casinious Moore gave up football after struggling with injuries. Auburn's defense had a very productive spring and may produce one of its deepest and most talented group of linebackers. Injuries: DE Jay Ratliff (knee sprain) was hurt early in spring practice but returned late. Other players who missed all or most of spring with injuries were NG DeMarco McNeil (knee), FB Brandon Johnson (shoulder), OL Steven Ross (knee), and OL Taylor Bourgeois (shoulder). All will be ready for preseason practice. Questions remaining: Auburn hoped to emerge from spring practice with a starting quarterback but neither senior Daniel Cobb nor sophomore Jason Campbell stepped forward. Campbell had the best last week of practice but Cobb had the best performance in the spring game, completing 13 of 25 passes for 182 yards. He has the edge going into fall practice and Auburn plans to name a starter in August at the end of two-a-days. First game: Sept. 2 at Southern California. LSU Last season: 10-3, 5-3 SEC (tied for first); beat Tennessee 31-20 in SEC championship game; beat Illinois 47-34 in Sugar Bowl. Starters returning: Offense 6, Defense 6, Kicker 2. Players to watch: RB LaBrandon Toefield (992 yards rushing, 19 TD); LB Bradie James (113 tackles); Coach: Nick Saban, 61-33-1 overall, 18-7 in his third season at LSU. Review: Matt Mauck emerged as the starting quarterback after Marcus Randall suffered a torn anterior cruciate ligament during the spring game. Mauck, the 23-year-old former baseball player who led LSU to its SEC championship over Tennessee, threw for 241 yards in the spring game. James was moved from outside linebacker to middle linebacker and was adjusting well before an injury sidelined him. Redshirt freshman RB Joseph Addai will challenge for playing time in the fall. Injuries: James suffered a bruised kidney and missed the final week of spring pratice. Toefield sat out spring practice to recover from a knee injury suffered in the SEC championship game. Starting center Ben Wilkerson injured a right knee early in practice and missed the rest of the spring. He will not require surgery. Questions remaining: With Randall's status up in the air, LSU must find a backup quarterback. Redshirt freshman Rick Clausen, the brother of Tennessee's Casey Clausen, is the only other scholarship quarterback currently on campus. Highly-regarded freshman Lester Ricard will arrive this summer. Toefield is ahead of schedule on his rehab. If he can recover 100 percent, LSU could repeat as champs in the SEC West. First game: Aug. 31 at Virginia Tech. OLE MISS Last season: 7-4, 4-4 SEC (tied for third). Starters returning: Offense 7, Defense 7, Kicker 2. Players to watch: QB Eli Manning (2,948 yards passing, 31 TD); LB Eddie Strong (105 tackles); SE Chris Collins (54 catches, 692 yards). Coach: David Cutcliffe, 23-13 in his fourth season at Ole Miss. Review: Manning threw for 378 yards and two touchdowns in the spring game to rally his team from a 21-0 deficit to a 49-21 victory. The Rebels may have found a big-play receiver in Jason Armstead, who caught eight passes for 187 yards. Ole Miss emerged with plenty of depth at all positions on offense. Injuries: Linebackers Lanier Goethie and L.P. Spence had surgeries and missed all of spring drills. Both players are expected to return in the fall. Backup punter Shae Orrell missed spring practice due to thyroid cancer, which was surgically removed. His prognosis is good. RB Ronald McClendon, a junior college transfer, had arthroscopic surgery on his left knee but is expected to fully recover by the fall. DB Bryant Thomas also had knee surgery but his status for the fall is uncertain. Questions remaining: Last year, the Rebels finished last in the SEC in rushing defense (214.2 ypg), which is why Cutcliffe fired Don Lindsey and hired Chuck Driesbach, his third defensive coordinator in as many years. Driesbach's 4-2-5 defense will try to take advantage of the Rebels' athleticism at linebacker and defensive back but stopping the run with a small front line will continue to be an issue once the season starts. Ole Miss hopes to get some additional help from the 21 players it redshirted last season. First game: Aug. 31 vs. Louisiana-Monroe MISS. STATE Last season: 3-8, 2-6 SEC (sixth). Starters returning: Offense 8, Defense 7, Kicker 2. Players to watch: LB Mario Haggan (95 tackles); FS Josh Morgan (79 tackles); RB Dontae Walker (548 yards). Coach: Jackie Sherrill, 175-101-4 overall, 70-56-2 in his 12th year at Mississippi State. Review: Kevin Fant took over at quarterback and completed 18 of 22 passes for 201 yards in the spring game. Non-scholarship K Brent Smith is pushing last year's starter, John Michael Martin. That decision won't be made until preseason practice. Michael Gholar, a starting forward on the Bulldog basketball team, came out for football and is now No. 2 on the depth chart at free safety behind All-SEC Morgan. Injuries: Safety Walter Burdett suffered a dislocated shoulder during the first week of spring practice. The projected starter at that position, he should be full strength in the fall. OT Derrick Thompson missed all of spring practice while rehabilitating from knee surgery. Questions remaining: How strong Thompson will be when he comes back will determine the rotation on the offensive line, which is not completely settled. It will be Mississippi State's first order of business in August to get that group game-ready. The defensive line must improve to contend in the SEC West. Walker ran tough early in the spring, then missed the last two weeks with nicks and bruises. He will be pushed in the preseason by two incoming high school All-Americans. First game: Aug. 31 at Oregon. _Compiled by Tony Barnhart, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
