WORLD BUSINESS NEWS IN BRIEF  c.2002 New York Times News Service 	EUROPE 	BRITAIN: UTILITY'S PROFIT FALLS 	Scottish Power said its profit fell 9.7 percent in its 2002 fiscal year, but said a recovery was under way, driven by its operations in the United States, where it owns PacifiCorp. Profit before tax, good will, amortization and exceptional items declined to 567 million pounds ($829 million), compared with 628 million pounds in 2001. Revenue in the period, which ended March 31, was flat at 6.3 billion pounds. The utility company took 1.3 billion pounds in one-time pretax charges, in part, to account for the disposal of Southern Water, which it sold in March to a consortium led by the Royal Bank of Scotland Group, and for reorganization costs. 	AMERICAS 	CANADA: GOLD PROFIT FALLS 	The Barrick Gold Corp., the Toronto-based gold producer, reported a 47 percent decline in first-quarter net income, with lower output and higher production costs offsetting a slight rise in prices. Income was $46 million, or 9 cents a share, down from $87 million, or 16 cents, a year earlier. Production slipped by 7.6 percent and costs climbed to $263 an ounce from $246. The average realized gold price was $329 an ounce, up from $320. Barrick said that, for the first time, it had sold half of its mines' output on the spot market where the price averaged $290. Its hedging program realized an average price of $365. 	ASIA 	JAPAN: SONY RAISES WEB EXPOSURE 	Looking to increase its links to the Internet, the Sony Corp. said it would buy 1 percent of RealNetworks Inc., a provider of online digital video technology. Sony, the world's largest electronics company, is looking for additional ways to sell the game software, music and movies it produces. Sony hopes to make its popular PlayStation 2 game console a one-stop vehicle for downloading entertainment in the home. Sony, which will pay an estimated $11 million for the stake, will also work with RealNetworks to develop software and ways to distribute digital media using Sony products. 	JAPAN: BREWER TAKES LIQUOR STAKE 	Japan's second-biggest beer producer, the Kirin Brewery Co., will buy 32.4 percent of a French food services company, Societe Immobiliere et Financiere Pour L'Alimentation, to gain a stake of more than 3 percent in Pernod Ricard, the maker of Martell cognac and Chivas Regal Scotch. Kirin, which lost the top spot in Japan's beer market last year to Asahi Beer, wants to diversify into other markets. Last year, Kirin took stakes in the San Miguel Corp., the Philippine brewery, and Takeda Chemical Industries' food business. 	AUSTRALIA 	TRADE: WHISPERING WITH JAPAN 	Australia and Japan decided to work toward a bilateral free trade agreement, but the step was so tentative that it was not mentioned in the official communique concluding a two-day visit by Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi. The prime minister, John W. Howard, said after their meetings that both sides want an agreement, but ``there will be difficulties.'' As in preliminary free trade talks now under way with the United States, Australia considers its agricultural exports as a central issue. Both the United States and Japan have crop subsidies that Australia claims are protectionist obstacles to free trade. Japan is Australia's largest trading partner, with annual two-way shipments of about $20 billion. 	AUSTRALIA: BILLITON'S PROFIT FALLS 	BHP Billiton, the international mining, energy and steel group, reported a 33 percent decline in net earnings for its third fiscal quarter, and cautioned that it still sees little evidence of stronger demand for many of its products. Citing cutbacks in base metal production, lower petroleum prices and difficult conditions in steel markets, the group, which is based in Melbourne, said that profit attributable to common shareholders fell to $406 million from $604 million a year earlier. Revenue in the period, which ended March 31, slipped 8 percent to $4.3 billion. Paul M. Anderson, the chief executive, said that high inventory levels, slack demand and lackluster commodity prices, will continue to hurt the company's earnings. 
