A squirrel runs up a tree, and the dog barks. You leave home, and the dog barks. You come back, and the dog barks. Somebody comes to the door, and the dog barks. It's Tuesday, and the dog barks. For some dogs, anything or apparently nothing at all can lead to an outbreak of sustained, frenzied, earsplitting, nerve-racking, neighbor-infuriating barking. Judy Kohl, animal control officer for the Dayton suburb of Kettering, said barking-dog complaints peak at this time of year when people have their windows open and are often out working in their yards. ``It's not so bad in the winter, when everything is closed up, but right now we get barking-dog calls all hours of the night and day,'' Kohl said. ``It's one of the top five reasons people call police here.'' Yvonne Dunphe, a volunteer trainer with Pet Behavior and Training Services Inc. in Dayton, said pet owners often come to Pet Behavior to get their dogs to stop barking. But correcting a barking problem that has taken years to develop can be tough. ``People want us to say the magic words `yabba dabba,' and everything will be OK,'' Dunphe said. ``It's never that easy.'' For dogs, barking is as natural as tail wagging, panting, sniffing and all that other doggish stuff they do. In fact, humans apparently have increased barking in domestic dogs through centuries of selective breeding. Adult wolves and other feral canines can bark, but they do it very little. Adult wolves, foxes and wild dogs communicate instead with a complex system of body postures, growls, howls and scents. Wolf pups, however, bark quite a bit. Humans found barking useful in the wolves they domesticated. Barking provided warnings for danger and helped keep track of the dogs during a hunt. Experts say early dog fanciers reinforced barking in domestic dogs by selecting noisy dogs as breeding stock. Trying to breed dogs who were less aggressive may also have contributed to barking. Breeders selected dogs that were more gentle and puppylike, and puppylike barking was reinforced along with gentleness. Kohl, the animal control officer, said barking isn't much of a problem out in the open countryside. ``But in a plat, where the houses are back to back and side to side, you get a tunnel effect that carries sound even farther,'' she said. ``And if you've got four or five dogs in the same block, it can get loud quickly.'' Kohl said when police get a complaint about a barking dog, she or another officer investigates to see if the dog is still barking. If the officer feels the dog is creating excessive noise and being a nuisance, the officer writes a ticket under the city's nuisance law. If the owner takes the dog inside or otherwise quiets it before police arrive, the officer still can issue a ticket if two neighbors sign a witness statement that the dog is causing a problem, Kohl said. The offense is a minor misdemeanor that carries about a $55 fine for the first offense and higher fines for repeat offenses. Dunphe, the dog trainer, said the suburb's barking-dog ordinance may be enforced a bit more strictly than other community's ordinances. But most cities will issue tickets if dog owners allow their dogs to make too much noise. ``What we hate to see is people who get rid of their dogs because they can't control the barking,'' Dunphe said. Nuisance barking can be controlled, but it takes effort, according to Dunphe and Bob Sexton, animal control officer supervisor for the Montgomery County Animal Shelter. The first trick is figuring out why the dog is barking. ``Are they barking at a squirrel or a rabbit?'' Sexton said. ``Do they bark at kids riding bicycles down the street? Do they quiet down when the stimulus leaves or do they keep barking? Sometimes they're just barking to get your attention.'' One of the most common problem behaviors is barking when a visitor comes to the door, Dunphe said. This is particularly a problem for dogs who are naturally excitable and who haven't been properly trained, she said. ``When the dog was a puppy, we might have thought it was cute when he bounced up and down and barked when somebody came to the door,'' Dunphe said. ``Now that the dog is bigger and louder, jumping around and barking isn't cute any more.'' Prevention is better than correction when training dogs. Start shaping their behavior when the dogs are young, and serious problems are less likely to develop later. Dunphe said you must train an excitable dog to react calmly when a visitor arrives. Put the dog away when guests are expected and bring it out to meet the guest after the initial excitement of the arrival has passed. Don't yell at the dog for barking at the door. Your yelling tends to reinforce the dog's excitement, making things worse. ``He's barking, you're yelling; he thinks you're barking with him,'' Dunphe said. ``If you have worked on a simple `sit'' command with your dog, that can help a lot,'' she said. ``Get his attention focused on you. When he's calmed down, then you answer the door. You may have to ask for a little patience from your friends until the dog gets it right.'' Putting the dog away before someone arrives sometimes works, but dragging the dog away and pinning it up after someone comes to the door can be counterproductive. The dog learns to associate someone arriving at the door with confinement, and that can make the dog more aggressive toward visitors. Another common problem is the dog who is left outside and barks when its owner is away. Sexton said the county animal shelter cares for about 100 dogs on an average day, and barking that disturbs neighbors is not a problem, because the dogs are housed indoors. Sexton, Kohl and Dunphe all said keeping pet dogs indoors during the day is probably better for them, and it lessens the chance their barking will bother neighbors. ``Some dogs when they're left alone go into guard mode,'' Kohl said. ``They know the owner isn't home, so they take it upon themselves to protect the property and drive off intruders. The owners don't know how much noise the dogs are making when they're not home.'' Dogs left outside alone can also be bored and lonely. They bark because they have nothing interesting to do, Dunphe said. And if they get a reaction such as causing a squirrel to run, they find that interesting enough to try to do it again. ``A dog left by himself can spend years training himself to bark,'' Dunphe said. ``It takes more than one session in obedience school to untrain him.'' Where possible, pet dogs should be left inside when their owners aren't around. If they get plenty of exercise when their owners are home, they're generally content to spend a lot of the time sleeping when they're inside alone. A dog door makes it possible for the dog to get out to relieve himself, or the pet owner can come home at some point during the day to let the dog out. Unless the dog is old or sick, however, it usually can get through a workday without a bathroom break if necessary, the experts said. You can reduce a dog's tendency to bark while spending time with it outdoors. If the dog reacts to a squirrel by barking, give it a come and sit command to distract it. After a few seconds, praise the dog for sitting quietly. Eventually, the dog will get the message that you want it to be quiet when it sees a squirrel. ``We have a universal `no' command that we give our dogs, and we expect them to understand what we're saying `no' about,'' Dunphe said. ``Much of the time they don't.'' Corrective collars sometimes help, but they should be employed only after trying other methods. Dunphe said the most humane and probably most-effective collars are ones that spray a jet of citronella at the dog's snout when it barks. The strong smell distracts the dog from its barking without causing the dog any real discomfort. James Cummings writes for the Dayton Daily News. E-mail: jamescummings(at)coxohio.com BREEDS THAT BARK Benjamin Hart, a veterinary behavior specialist at the University of California-Davis, in the mid-1980s conducted a study of the behavior characteristics of the 56 most popular pure-bred dog breeds. The study led to the publication in 1988 of ``The Perfect Puppy: How to Choose Your Dog by Its Behavior.'' According to the book, Hart asked experts to identify breeds that were likely to `bark excessively at anything, at any hour of the day or night.'' Dogs that ranked high also ranked high in excitability and demand for affection. The top excessive-barking breeds listed are: _ Yorkshire Terrier _ Cairn Terrier _ Miniature Schnauzer _ West Highland White Terrier _ Fox Terrier _ Beagle Some breeds have been bred to sound an alarm when an intruder approaches. Though watchdog barking is generally a useful trait, it can disturb neighbors if the behavior is not kept under control. Breeds most likely to bark at intruders are: _ Rottweiler _ German Shepherd _ Doberman Pinscher _ Scottish Terrier _ West Highland White Terrier _ Miniature Schnauzer Two breeds that tend not to bark much either as a warning or for no reason are Bloodhounds and Newfoundlands. Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
