Here are the stories New York Times editors are planning for Page 1, Friday, May 3. The night supervisor for The New York Times News Service is Pat Ryan; phone: 888-346-9867 or 212-556-1927; e-mail: patryan(at)nytimes.com. 	TOP 	Lede stories: 	The stories run under a 3-column, 3-line hed. 	MIDEAST-TALKS (Washington) _ A ledeall: Secretary of State Colin Powell says preparations are under way for a Middle East conference this summer, but no venue or precise date had yet been set. ``We committed ourselves to the promotion of serious and accelerated negotiations toward a settlement,'' he said, speaking after a meeting in Washington _ formed last month and grouping the United States, the United Nations, Russia and the European Union to coordinate Israeli-Palestinian mediation efforts. Other developments. (Summary from wires) (Staff byline TK) (We plan to move the story by 9:30 p.m. ET in ``i'' news file.) 	See also MIDEAST-JENIN. 	MIDEAST (Ramallah, West Bank) _ A ledeall: By turns bitter and triumphant, Yasser Arafat emerges from a month-long Israeli siege to survey the damage done to the unofficial Palestinian capital, as leaders on both sides seek new footing with the deadlock here suddenly broken by U.S. and Saudi Arabian pressure. Other developments. By James Bennet. (Scheduled to move by 9 p.m. ET in ``i'' news file.) 	See also MIDEAST-CONGRESS. 	With photos, NYT1-6,7-8,13-14, and a map. 	Off-lead story: 	WTC-SITE (New York) _ It is nearly done. Through the blur of unnoticed seasons, in an effort without parallel, 1.6 million tons of material from the collapse of the World Trade Center have been dismantled, examined and carted off to be examined again. That fire-spitting, hellish mound has been reduced, one truckload at a time, to a few piles on a bedrock-bottomed pit. The curtain is about to fall on this mournful ballet. The last of what was the World Trade Center will be carted away by the end of the month, creating profound physical and psychological shifts regarding a singular calamity. The recovery operation that began in Lower Manhattan on Sept. 11 will end, and a new phase, the rebuilding phase, will begin. By Dan Barry. (Scheduled to move by 8:30 p.m. ET in ``a'' news file.) 2,500 words. 	With photos. 	FOLD 	RIDGE-SECURITY (Washington) _ He was the ``true patriot, a trusted friend'' chosen by President Bush nine days after Sept. 11 to create a grand strategy for deterring future terrorist attacks. But instead of becoming the pre-eminent leader of domestic security, Tom Ridge has become a White House adviser with a shrinking mandate, forbidden by the president to testify before Congress to explain his strategy, overruled in White House councils and overshadowed by powerful cabinet members reluctant to cede their turf or their share of the limelight. By Elizabeth Becker. (Scheduled to move by 9 p.m. ET in ``w'' news file.) 1,600 words. 	With photos, NYT34,36. 	PRIEST-ABUSE-POLL (Undated) _ American Roman Catholics say that priests who sexually abuse children and teen-agers should be barred from participating in parish life, and that any accusations of abuse should be investigated by local law enforcement rather than the church, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll. By Robin Toner. (Scheduled to move by 8:30 p.m. ET in ``a'' news file.) 1,300 words. 	With a graphic and sidebars. 	See also PRIEST-ARREST, POPE-CONFESSION. 	BOTTOM 	HIGH-PLAINS-DROUGHT (Lamar, Colo.) _ The soil is on the move again in the High Plains, drifting over a swath of the American midsection calcified by drought. For some, it is reviving memories of a time when the world seemed to blow away. There have been serious droughts here before, some as fierce as the dry spells of the 1930's. But this drought is among the worst, and in some counties, particularly in the northern plains, it is the most devastating in more than a century. By Timothy Egan. (Scheduled to move by 8:45 p.m. ET in ``a'' news file.) 1,300 words. 	With photo and graphic. 	FRANCE-POLITICS-MOOD (Schirmeck, France) _ This town in the forest is a place of dark secrets _ some new, some old and some underscoring the paradoxes that swirl around the strength here of Jean Marie Le Pen, the extreme right-wing insurgent who will challenge President Jacques Chirac in a run-off vote for the presidency of France on Sunday. The view of some people that there is something deep in the French spirit that has helped fuel Le Pen's rise _ seems to reinforce suggestions that the rightist politician's influence in an arc of France stretching from the Mediterranean, through eastern France and onto the rust-belt of the north-east, may be more nuanced and less easily predicted than was thought. By Alan Cowell. (Scheduled to move by 8:30 p.m. ET in ``i'' news file.) 1,400 words. 	With map. 	INSIDE STORY PROMOTED ON PAGE 1: 	DELL-NORRIS-COLUMN (New York) _ Gambling on your own stock price is not something companies often advertise they are doing. But for some companies, particularly technology companies, it was a popular strategy in the 1990s. Now it is coming back to haunt them. In Dell Computer's last fiscal year, ended Feb. 1, the company bought back 69 million shares for $3 billion. Had Dell simply called its broker and placed a buy order for its stock, the most it could have paid was $31.32 a share, 28 percent less. By Floyd Norris. (Scheduled to move by 9 p.m. ET in ``f'' news file.) 	(Editors: All clients receive all budgets, but only full-service clients receive all stories. Please check your level of service to determine which stories you will receive.) 
