Kevin Brown is back. He's not the typical Kevin Brown yet, but he's not too shabby, either. Brown, just activated from the disabled list, returned to the already-sizzling Dodgers rotation Tuesday. He allowed just two runs in five innings. He scattered five hits, struck out five, walked one, hit one batter, threw one wild pitch and had an errant throw on a pickoff attempt. For the most part, Brown managed to avoid trouble as the Cincinnati Reds beat the Dodgers 3-1 in front of 25,178 at Dodger Stadium. Despite the loss, the Dodgers remain tied with Arizona for the lead in the National League West. ``It was definitely a test,'' Brown said. ``I had everything to deal with out there.'' Brown went on the disabled list last month when he tore scar tissue in his surgically repaired right elbow and the swelling didn't subside. He said he felt fine in his first start back. At times, it looked that way. Brown gave up a two-run homer to Adam Dunn, who drilled an 0-2 fastball to left-center field to give Cincinnati a 2-0 lead in the first inning. It was Dunn's third home run in as many plate appearances, the first Reds player to accomplish that feat since Bret Boone, a USC product, did it on Sept. 20, 1998 against Chicago. Beside that mistake, Dodgers manager Jim Tracy was pleased with Brown's performance. ``I saw a guy who was throwing the ball free and easy with good extension,'' Tracy said. ``The thing I'm tickled about was seeing the ball jump out of his hand the way it did tonight.'' The Dodgers scored their only run in the fourth inning, when Paul Lo Duca hit into a double play with the bases loaded and no outs, scoring Alex Cora. Cora had started the fourth with a pinch-hit double and Dave Roberts singled. Cesar Izturis beat out a throw on a comebacker to pitcher Chris Reitsma to load the bases. After Lo Duca's groundout, Shawn Green flied out to right to end the inning. Brown threw 84 pitches, including 53 for strikes. He saved his best work for the last inning, when he retired the side. ``The guy's coming off arm surgery,'' Eric Karros said. ``He threw well, but we didn't score runs. If we score any runs, everyone's talking about what a great start he's having.'' Brown's first pitch of the game was a 94 mph fastball. The accuracy of the gun and/or the auxiliary scoreboard operator was in question, however, especially after one pitch was clocked at 103 mph. Dodgers reliever Giovanni Carrara pitched two scoreless innings in the seventh and eighth. In the ninth, he walked Todd Walker, then knocked Austin Kearns off his feet with a pitch that hit Kearns on the brim of his helmet. The area around Kearns' left eye was bloodied and swollen and he left the game. The rookie, who was 3 for 3 and batting .455, will have precautionary X-rays today. ``The ball slipped out of my hand,'' Carrara said. ``You don't try to hit nobody in the head, especially with the score 2-1.'' Carrara then hit Corky Miller in the back to load the bases, and a Wilton Guerrero pinch-hit single made it 3-1. Reitsma was impressive when he needed to be in earning his first victory of the season. The Dodgers had runners on second and third in the first inning after Green hit a two-out double. But Brian Jordan, who failed to reach base safely for the first time in 20 consecutive games, struck out on a changeup, Reitsma's out pitch. Reitsma also struck out Hiram Bocachica on a full-count changeup with runners on first and second with two outs in the sixth inning. 
