More than a month after Congress passed a historic campaign finance law, some of its fine print is beginning to cause jitters around the country. Best known for its ban on unlimited ``soft money'' contributions that labor unions, corporations and wealthy individuals give national parties, the law also has an array of less-noticed provisions with potentially far-reaching effects. ``Even people who were loosely following the legislation did not, until after it passed, really appreciate how complicated it was,'' said Robert F. Bauer, a leading campaign finance lawyer who has just rushed out a guide for the new era of campaigning. Titled ``Soft Money/Hard Law,'' the guide is filled with admonitions about how easily a candidate, party or outside group could step into legal trouble once the new law takes effect Nov. 6. ``We have had calls ranging from keen curiosity to outright panic about what the law does or doesn't do,'' Bauer said. In anticipation of the tighter new rules, for example, the state Democratic Party in Indiana recently notified Sen. Evan Bayh and two of Indiana's other lawmakers, Reps. Julia Carson and Baron Hill, that they might have to give up their rented space at party headquarters starting in November. The party was worried about new requirements for keeping finances separate for federal and local campaigns. ``There's obviously still confusion about what it means,'' said Mark Kornblau, spokesman for Bayh, who voted for the new law. The aide added that, after more legal advice, the Indiana party has notified Bayh that he won't be evicted. Even so, the party still expects to print up two sets of campaign lawn signs, one for local candidates and another for federal ones, Kornblau said. Dave Mason, chairman of the Federal Election Commission (FEC), said this week that he believes the new law, known as the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002, will forbid federal candidates and officeholders from helping local candidates raise money. Would a U.S. senator be allowed to sponsor a fund-raiser for a governor? ``There's a good argument that that would not be permitted under the new law,'' said Mason. The issue is among those that could be resolved by the FEC, which next week holds its first public meeting to draft regulations for the law. Another part of the law is less ambiguous, however. It forbids minors from donating to federal campaigns and parties. The provision was aimed at past evasion of federal limits by giving campaigns money on behalf of their young children. But two teenagers are charging that the restriction strips them of their constitutional rights. Trevor Southerland, a 16-year-old from Rossville, Ga., said he would be forbidden to pay dues to the national Libertarian Party. And Barret(cq) O'Brock, 14, of Shreveport, La., would not be able to give $20 to the congressional campaign of his former Sunday School teacher. The teens have joined a coalition of opponents in challenging the constitutionality of the campaign law. The lawsuit is scheduled to be heard next December before a special three-judge panel, with a final review expected in the Supreme Court shortly afterwards. One of the leading lawyers in defending the campaign law, Seth P. Waxman, dismissed the complaints about its various provisions. ``Many of the claims that are popularly being made about the effect of the bill are simply hyperbolic,'' he said, adding that they fail to take into account the ``compelling federal interest'' in avoiding both corruption and the appearance of corruption in federal elections. In the months before the Supreme Court has the final word, uncertainty reigns as experts delve into the potential effects of the law. ``Any time you deal with campaign finance laws, it's beyond the pale when it comes to confusing,'' said Wayne Hamilton, executive director of the Texas Republican Party. His chief concern is the new limitation on donations for get-out-the-vote drives for federal campaigns. He said his solution is to double the party's accounting office to five full-time staffers. In Georgia, Republican Party chairman Ralph Reed said he expects no dramatic impact. The new law might ``pinch'' some of the get-out-the-vote drives by the state party, he said. Reed added that the national parties will be hurt more, since they will be forbidden to collect the huge checks that in recent years have underwritten their TV ads. In the future, those big donations ``will be funneled into private advocacy groups'' that are largely unregulated, he said. John Anderson, executive director of Georgia's Democratic Party, offered no predictions about the effects of the new law. ``We're going to have the lawyers look at options,'' he said. And that, so far, appears to be the one undebatable effect of the new law. ``Any time the law changes and people are restricted in what they can do politically, it always means more work for lawyers,'' Bauer said. Julia Malone's e-mail address is juliam(at)coxnews.com ENDIT Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
