Novartis AG, the giant Swiss drug company, is expected to announce Tuesday that it is leasing as much as 500,000 square feet of research and development space in Cambridge, Mass., in the shadow of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, according to several real estate and government sources. The move, which could be unveiled at the Cambridge residence of MIT President Charles M. Vest, is a shot in the arm for the Cambridge real estate market and a milestone for greater Boston's biotechnology industry. Novartis, which would employ 600 people at the new facilities, would become the third major pharmaceutical firm to set up operations in the Boston area in order to be near universities, teaching hospitals, and young biotechnology companies. Pfizer Inc. of New York opened a ``drug technology center'' on Memorial Drive in Cambridge several years ago, and Merck &AMP; Co. last summer began construction of a 12-story research facility in the Longwood Medical Area that will employ 400 scientists when it opens in 2004. ``This is further confirmation of the importance of the Cambridge market to companies interested in developing drug technologies,'' said Peter Calkins, senior vice president of Forest City Commercial Group, developer of University Park at MIT, a major project that has become home to many life-science companies and is planning a new lab building to be completed in late 2004. ``If this is true, this is major economic development news for this region,'' said Brian H. Kavoogian, a principal at the Davis Cos., Boston-based developers. ``To have a pharmaceutical company commit to greater Boston is enormous. When is the last time you saw a major corporation commit these kind of resources here?'' Novartis has committed to space in Technology Square, the former Polaroid headquarters now owned by MIT, and 270 Bent St., a building owned by Lyme Properties LLC. However, a lease hasn't yet been finalized, said several real estate brokers familiar with the negotiations. While the real estate community buzzed about the deal, Novartis and MIT did their best to stifle speculation prior to the announcement. ``In April 2001, Novartis embarked upon an aggressive multi-year commitment to dramatically expand and improve its research capabilities and accelerate the drug discovery process,'' said Sheldon Jones, a Novartis spokesman. ``In addition to our buildup in Europe, we are looking for expansion locations in the US. At this time, Novartis has nothing further to announce.'' Officials at Cushman &AMP; Wakefield of Massachusetts Inc., which is representing Novartis in lease negotiations, declined to comment. Novartis, based in Basel, Switzerland, employs 71,000 worldwide and 17,000 in the US. In addition to US headquarters in New York, it has several facilities in New Jersey and other locations. Its brands include Gerber and Cibavision, and its major drugs include Diovan for high blood pressure and Sandimmun, used by organ transplant patients. The company has sales of $19.1 billion last year. While the office market in Cambridge has declined significantly since the peak reached in late 2000, the market for laboratory and R&AMP;D space has stayed relatively strong. Average rents have stayed between $50 and $60 a square foot triple net, meaning that corporate tenants pay real estate taxes, utilities and maintenance on top of their rental payments. However, the amount of money landlords have been willing to provide to pay for tenant improvements has increased. Landlords may now give a $70 to $90 allowance to pay for improvements, whereas none was offered at the height of the market, brokers said. The sheer size of Novartis' expected lease is enough to give the Cambridge market a jolt. There are about 3.5 million square feet of lab/r&AMP;d space in Cambridge, with just under 10 percent vacant and just under 20 percent available in the short term, according to Spaulding &AMP; Slye Colliers, a Boston real estate development firm. Just the Bent Street part of Novartis' anticipated deal could drop the vacancy rate to 6 percent. ``I'd have to search a long way back to find a deal where one tenant took so much space in one fell swoop,'' said Debra Gould, a principal at Spaulding &AMP; Slye who specializes in Cambridge leasing. ``If the Novartis deal and a couple of others that are in the works happen, there will only be a couple of buildings left with viable lab space ready to go.'' The move also represents a quick turnaround for Technology Square. Internet infrastructure whiz Akamai Technology Inc. had planned to expand its lease at Technology Square. Instead, with the telecom collapse, the company negotiated an early withdrawal from its lease with MIT. Now, MIT seems to be making good on its stated intention of bringing biotech to Technology Square, a quadrangle of bleak cast-concrete buildings that Polaroid built and occupied in 1966. Lyme Properties is also developing Cambridge Research Park, a large parcel on Third Street that will include new, architecturally innovative headquarters for Genzyme Corp. and a facility for Vertex. Some brokers said they expect Novartis to occupy space in the research park facility as well. Jeffrey Krasner can be reached at krasner(at)globe.com. 
