The disappearance of 5-year-old Rilya Wilson while in state custody is just an extreme example of an overburdened agency struggling to keep up with the demands of caring for an increasing number of vulnerable children, state officials and child advocates say. ``This is an agency that's overloaded with children, and its performance is dismal,'' said Howard Talenfeld, a lawyer and child advocate in Fort Lauderdale who has sued the state to overhaul Broward County's foster care system. While extreme, the mishandling of Rilya's case was emblematic of systemic problems in the state's Department of Children and Families, child welfare experts said. ``Unfortunately, it is the children that pay the price for mismanagement,'' said Karen Gievers, a child advocate and lawyer in Tallahassee who has sued the department on behalf of foster children. ``We need to see a relaxing of confidential statutes that are supposed to protect the confidentiality of the child but are instead used by the department to cover up its nonperformance.'' Tim Bottcher, a spokesman for the state agency said, ``We know we have folks who don't think we do a good job, and that's their opinion, but we are not necessarily going to respond every time someone says something.'' Kathleen Kearney, secretary of the agency, is not granting interviews, Bottcher said. In a news conference on Wednesday, she would not answer questions but read a statement in which she took responsibility for Rilya's disappearance. She also accused a caseworker, Deborah Muskelly, of filing false reports of monthly visits with the girl and a supervisor, Willie Harris, of failing to review the case file. Muskelly and Harris resigned under pressure last month for what the agency said was mishandling of another case. The agency would not provide details of that case, and the two workers could not be reached for comment. Rilya was supposed to be in state custody, but the agency and her grandmother lost track of the girl for 15 months. They realized she was missing only last week, when a caseworker tried to check on the girl and did not find her at the grandmother's house. The grandmother and state agency each thought the other had custody of Rilya. Thursday, the Miami-Dade police sent investigators to East Cleveland, Ohio, to obtain a DNA sample from Rilya's mother to compare with that of a dead girl in Kansas City, Mo. Comparisons of palm prints on Wednesday did not match, but the authorities said Thursday that Rilya's prints were not reliable and that they were still working on the assumption that the dead girl was probably her. Capt. Randy Hopkins of the Kansas City Police Department's homicide unit said the odds were ``more than 50/50'' that the body was Rilya's. As the investigations continue, people familiar with Florida's child welfare system said they hoped the notoriety of the case would help avert future problems. (BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) ``This is one of those rare occasions where the media found out about it, but what about the rest?'' said Talenfeld, the lawyer and child advocate. Richard Wexler, executive director of the National Coalition for Child Protection Reform, said the Florida agency was overburdened in part because of an effort during Kearney's tenure to be more aggressive in removing children from troubled homes. ``Her philosophy is take the kid and run,'' said Wexler, who added that the agency should be overhauled and Kearney should resign. Supporters of the department of children and families say too much blame has been placed on an agency that protects most of the nearly 32,000 children in its care. ``In fairness, this is sort of an overwhelming job states undertake, whether in Florida or elsewhere,'' said Speaker Tom Feeney of the Florida House. ``Taking children into custody and being responsible for their health, safety and welfare is not easy,'' he said. Feeney, a Republican, has called for passage of a new law making it a felony for anyone to falsify reports related to child welfare cases. (END OPTIONAL TRIM) State records show that for months before Rilya's disappearance, the department had come under criticism and scrutiny for its handling of child welfare cases. The Child Abuse Death Review Committee, set up by the state Legislature, found that of the deaths of 60 neglected or abused children between 1999 and 2000, there were ``deficiencies in investigations'' of complaints in 27 of the cases. The group also said that in 10 cases the state did not provide adequate oversight. According to a report by the department's inspector general last August, the agency dismissed a private company that had been helping with a backlog of child abuse investigations after determining that the company had failed to adequately examine some cases and had closed others without taking action. The company, the Florida Task Force for the Protection of Abused and Neglected Children, could not be reached for comment Thursday. ``If you look at their backlogs, that obviously raises flags,'' said Rep. Sandra Murman, head of a legislative committee named to oversee the Department of Children and Families. ``When you have an agency that is such a safety net for vulnerable children and adults,'' she said, ``there has to be a system in place that will make sure that nobody slips through the cracks.'' 
