SO NOW SoBe: So what's the attraction? Is it the cool bottles, the caffeineless, energizing boost, the unique taste or the funky flavor names? Maybe we're just glad to be drinking something more interesting than bottled water. And with limited-edition bottles such as Bodacious Brew _ a tribute to Olympic silver-medalist skier Bode Miller _ and increasing sponsorship of concerts and sporting events, there's no doubt this beverage will continue to be so popular. SO NEW Boba: Trendy tea sippers are making Boba runs at local Chinatown delis in Los Angeles, San Francisco and New York. Otherwise known as tapioca, bubble or pearl tea, Boba is a tea/milk drink flavored with syrup and laden with tapioca balls that lurk on the bottom of the glass. Promising further growth, the Taiwanese-based chain Lollicup Tea Zone will soon be opening in several cities in the United States where they will offer a variety of bobas, and boba-inspired products. It should be interesting to see what other new products bubble up. SO NOW Weather Women: Are people really tuning in to the Weather Channel to see where the latest storms are brewing, or are they hoping to catch a friendly forecast from the new weather women? Christine Abernathy, Jeanetta Jones and Jennifer Lopez (nah, different one) are doing for weather what Maria Bartiromo did for finance _ making us tune in to subjects we used to tune out. SO NEW Weather Men: The latest forecast predicts that weathermen will be the hottest new news accessories. TV Norge in Oslo has just hired local athletes Christopher Dons and Arnulf Resnes to report the weather. And they're both fast becoming heartthrobs. Their movie-star looks and casual approach to weather reporting are grabbing attention around the globe. SO NOW Knickers: Now that she's pregnant Sarah Jessica Parker might think twice about showing off her knickers. No, not her underwear. You know, those old-fashioned pants that end just below the knee where they taper and cinch. Parker is one of the few fashionistas who can pull off this look. It may be the latest manifestation of the newsboy trend, but she'll look far from boyish if she pairs them with fishnet stockings and stilettos. SO NEW Shorts: We know, shorts aren't new, but they've managed to shed their unfashionable reputation. OP Classics is offering the corduroy shorts that were popular in the '80s. Puma and Adidas are selling pipe-trimmed gym shorts more suited to clubbing than sweating. And Marc by Marc Jacobs has Bond Girl-length minishorts, for those blessed with good genes. But our favorites are those old pair of cutoffs hiding in the back of the closet we couldn't bring ourselves to throw away. SO NOW Real People as Celebrities: Reality TV turned the most ordinary people into some of the most newsworthy celebrities. And no one bothered to ask what they'd done to deserve their newfound fame. Since Sept. 11 Americans have been elevating those who are arguably more worthy of attention _ the firefighters, police officers and military officers who risk their lives, not their egos. SO NEW Celebrities as Real People: The runaway MTV hit ``The Osbournes'' could be only the tip of the iceberg for this trend. Instead of turning ordinary people into celebrities, networks are now taking celebrities and turning them into ordinary people. We want to know how celebrities' lives differ from our own, and live vicariously as they too struggle with how to work the remote control. The big question ... who's next? Rumor has it that P. Diddy is interested, also the Gene Simmons clan, but we're yearning for soon-to-be-married Pamela Anderson and Kid Rock. SO NOW Classic Restaurants: Imagine this ... a jazz pianist playing Gershwin, waiters crooning old standards and young in-the-knows sitting with their plates of spaghetti. It's called Micelli's, perhaps the oldest Italian restaurant in Los Angeles, and young people are flocking to it. It's just one of the decidedly unhip but classic restaurants across the country that are making a comeback. With the trendiest of restaurants closing before your reservation comes due, real hipsters are craving some old style, lack of pretense and authentic food and atmosphere. SO NEW Celebrity Restaurants: Why are celebrities still launching their own restaurants? It certainly isn't because they can't get a table. It may be a way of enhancing their image without having to radically change their career or appearance. Britney Spears' Nyla in New York will be an elegant American brasserie that transforms into a late-night lounge. Not a restaurant, not yet a club? Located in Pasadena, Calif., Jennifer Lopez's Madre's, is a Latin joint designed by Rachel Ashwell of Shabby Chic, perhaps demonstrating J. Lo's softer side. Additional reporting by Kristin Bennett. (Jane Rinzler Buckingham is the president of Youth Intelligence, a market-research firm specializing in the 7-to-35-year-old market. Her company publishes the Cassandra Report, a comprehensive survey focused on identifying emerging trends among Generations X and Y.) 
