Charles R. Nesson is a legend among equals at Harvard Law School. As a student in the 1960s, he inspired comparisons to the great jurist Felix Frankfurter a half-century earlier. As a professor, he has blazed trails in Internet law, and as a lawyer he earned the nickname ``Billion Dollar Charlie'' for pursuing big damages in the Woburn toxic waste case. Yet today, Nesson finds himself in a strange sort of academic purgatory _ spending three mornings a week in the last row of his own classroom, silently watching two colleagues teach his torts students for the rest of the spring. During one class last week, Nesson chomped on chewing gum while sending e-mail and surfing the Web. Occasionally he looked up and appeared to listen to the highly organized, fact-filled, 90-minute lecture _ the kind of lecture he rarely gives. ``This kind of teaching is soothing for the students,'' Nesson whispered at one point. ``It gives them some distance from everything that's happened.'' What happened, according to Nesson, is a story of a professor who pushed the envelope too far. Some of his colleagues, however, fear it's a story of a professor in the midst of a meltdown. Last month, Nesson tried to create ``a teachable moment'' by proposing that his torts class hold a mock trial of one of its students who had defended the use of the word ``nigger.'' Nesson's planned exploration of the boundaries of free speech and hate speech, however, went badly off course. His idea infuriated the Black Law Students Association and others at Harvard, and so disrupted his torts class that he ultimately agreed to hand it over to a law school dean and a second professor. The episode has had both professional and personal reverberations at Harvard. It has sparked a debate among professors and students about just how far an unorthodox teacher can go in his own classroom: Are there ideas too sensitive, too combustible, to discuss openly at Harvard Law, or at other schools? Privately, though, some professors are also worried about Nesson's own mental well-being. The latest furor comes on the heels of his revelation to students this winter that he regularly smoked marijuana before his morning classes. Nesson has always seen himself as a slightly manic personality who thrives at the outer limits of academia, videotaping student debates with a hand-held camera rather than delivering a monologue from a classroom lectern. ``Nesson's incredibly smart, but I have 80 colleagues who are incredibly smart _ what really distinguishes him is the strength of his imagination,'' said Todd Rakoff, dean of the doctor of laws program, who is now coteaching Nesson's class. ``He sees and invents ideas that other people haven't thought of. Sometimes they're good, and sometimes they're not.'' To Nesson, and those who know him well, the recent events are part of a larger, more complicated story: How a man widely regarded as the most creative teacher at Harvard Law School has come to see an offbeat teaching style, technology, and even his continued drug use as essential to his originality. For a man in the midst of so much tumult, Nesson exudes the easy confidence of a winner. He recently volunteered to meet with the law school's dean, Robert C. Clark, just so Clark could chew him out if he wanted. Nesson is busily pursuing a new academic project in Jamaica, while also throwing parties for his students. Far from chastened, the 63-year-old professor begins most mornings with a puff on a joint, then a walk through the woods of Cambridge and a full day on campus. He spends much of his time on the Berkman Center for Internet &AMP; Society, which he founded in 1995 and which has attracted millions of dollars for high-profile projects on law, economics, government, and cyberspace. At two moments during an interview in his office, Nesson paraphrased the refrain from a favorite Kenny Rogers song, ``The Gambler,'' which he has been known to play at the start of his classes. ``I feel like I'm playing poker and there are a lot of chips on the table,'' he said. ``My cards are very good. I'm not folding.'' Nesson, who joined the Harvard Law faculty in 1966 and earned tenure in 1969, is widely known for his eccentric teaching style. For years he has devoted his classes to ``teachable moments,'' using an argument between students or an article in a newspaper to encourage his classes to probe an issue more deeply. In 1994, he created a class about the O.J. Simpson trial, drawing so much public notice that the case's trial judge, Lance Ito, asked for briefs from Nesson's students. Knowledge, Nesson believes, is buried among layers of information. As a teacher he considers himself a digger, leading students on an expedition to find knowledge beneath all the doctrines, theories, and cases in the law. The current furor, Nesson says, has been fueled by his occasional lack of sensitivity. Too often, he says, he throws out provocative or controversial ideas without always ``preparing'' students to receive them the way he intends. His stream-of-consciousness teaching style, in other words, lacks ``form,'' he says. After one student told a black classmate by e-mail that the use of the word ``nigger'' was allowable in a free society _ and that ``if you, as a race, want to prove that you do not deserve to be called by that word, work hard and you will be recognized'' _ Nesson concedes he should have talked to students before enthusiastically calling for a mock trial of the student for making the comment. Indeed, few students embraced Nesson's idea of a teachable moment. ``There were issues dealt with in class that shouldn't be dealt with in class,'' said Lacey Schwartz, a leader of the Black Law Students Association, who is in her second year at the school. ``Regardless of what Professor Nesson's intent was, he inappropriately and insensitively dealt with race issues this year. And the reality is, students had stopped going to his class.'' The association has asked the school to bar Nesson from teaching first-year students. But Rakoff says he isn't considering sanctioning the professor, adding that Nesson agreed to relinquish his torts class himself. Several professors say Nesson erred by treating an especially offensive comment like any other controversial statement. One colleague, reluctant to criticize Nesson, said that, in general, one responsibility of professors is to know when to provoke students, and when a provocation may be too incendiary or upsetting. Some professors also say they can understand Nesson's style _ especially given Harvard's tradition of aggressive, Socratic-style, question-and-answer teaching. ``Charlie has a different view than many people about what the purpose of teaching is,'' said Morton Horwitz, a Harvard Law professor who has joined Rakoff to teach Nesson's class. ``He really wants to produce some complicated questioning. He's incredibly creative and imaginative, and he's often incredibly frustrating.'' Nesson's career will survive the mock-trial controversy, many professors predict, but several were less sure about the impact of his own revelation this past winter that he regularly smoked marijuana. Nesson says he made the disclosure to put the issue ``on the record'' because of his role in a project involving prisoners in Jamaica. He didn't want people to connect his work there with his long-rumored interest in marijuana, he says. The news led Clark to seek assurance from Nesson that he won't use drugs on campus or as part of any Harvard activity. The professor bowed to Clark's wishes, but during an interview last week, he also admitted that he continues to use marijuana. If he were ever legally charged with drug use, a conviction could jeopardize his tenured post as the William F. Weld Professor of Law (named for an 1879 alumnus). But the greater threat to Nesson, some colleagues say, may lie in what the episode says about his own mental health. While Nesson experimented once with cocaine and tried LSD, he says he uses marijuana as a way to think creatively about his work, and also as a mood stabilizer. His father had depression and for a period of years was catatonic, Nesson says. While he says he has never fallen into a major depression, he believes _ and at least one of his doctors has concurred _ that only marijuana offers effective relief for his history of hypomania, or mild, manic behavior. Nesson plans to take a sabbatical next fall, chiefly to focus on the Jamaica project, and then return to the classroom in the winter. But it's clear he has not lost his enthusiasm for the law or his students. Poring over student evaluations of one recent class, not all of them positive, he declared, ``These are great, just great! Look at these reactions. My students are really thinking.''  Patrick Healy can be reached at phealy(at)globe.com. 
