First the judge handed down a bit of name-calling: ``common criminal,'' ``thief,'' ``convicted felon.'' Then scorn: ``You have allowed yourself to go from respected to being ridiculed.'' Then a lesson: white-collar crimes are no less serious than other crimes just ``because they are committed while wearing a business suit.'' And then the punishment. For the crime of colluding, six months of house arrest. Thus one of the art world's biggest scandals ended, not in a business suit but in pajamas. The felon is the former chief executive of Sotheby's, Diana D. Brooks, widely known as Dede. She should not have much trouble with the $350,000 fine also imposed by the court in Manhattan on Monday. Brooks' lawyer says she accepts the sentence and will not challenge it. So that's it? Scheming with a rival auctioneer, Christie's, to fix commission fees and you get to stay home for half a year? Some felons have all the luck. House arrest. The endless mental health day. Pajamas and slippers 24/7 without having to submit to an operation. Six months to stay in and finally do all the things I know I could if I just had some time. I would teach the dogs a trick (or finally domesticate them). I would read a book. See what all the fuss is over Robert A. Caro's biography of Lyndon Johnson. Maybe I would even write a book. Better: a screenplay. I would learn what all the buttons on the digital camera are for. I would harass Verizon back. There would finally be time. I would take bubble baths. Write a will. Do the family tree. Gather up all the catalogs that keep coming, and open them and order stuff. I would gamble online and shop on eBay. I would change the filters in the air-conditioners. I would send everybody lovely cards on their birthdays. I would order audiotapes and learn Italian. Earn college degrees on the Internet. Earn extra money at home! I would organize the closets and the drawers. Indulge my inner Martha and separate the summer linen sheets from the winter flannels. (I might even iron the sheets.) I would match the Tupperware with the lids. Take the photographs out of the boxes and put them in albums. And sort out the pictures in the computer and put them in digital albums. I could actually try out the clipped recipes stuffed in an unorganized drawer. Then call in a personal trainer to work off all the excess pounds. (The beauty of Brooks' punishment is that anyone can be invited in while the convict gets to stay home. Justice is kind.) I would repot the plants. I would throw out old paint. I would master Microsoft Word. I would keep my electronic monitoring bracelet shiny as can be. I could have a hobby _ make collages or amass the city's greatest collection of takeout (take-in) menus. If Brooks does her time in her Upper East Side apartment (instead of at her other home in Florida), she'll already have the better boites (Aureole. Jo Jo. Sushihatsu. Cafe Boulud). Living downtown in the Village, I could use some of my time indulging my inner Dede, and learn to move beyond the pizza from Two Boots. What necessity or novelty cannot be ordered in, especially in Manhattan, if you have time to wait for it? Being in is not a problem. It's finding ways to stay in that is, what with the pesky job and other obligations. But what if I could honestly say: ``I'm really sorry, but I can't come into the office again today because the judge still wants me to stay home.'' ``Yes, doctor, of course I want to try another stop-smoking clinic, but no-can-leave-the-apartment.'' (One of the few establishments not in Paris or China where smoking is still permitted.) ``Ordinarily I'd be delighted to drive all that way for your daughter's graduation party, but the judge wants me home.'' Such a rich and productive and welcome void my six months would be. It's nice to know that Brooks has decided not to waste hers on a pesky legal appeal. 
