Hi my name is kalene and I'm searching for a job in homestead and I'm 14 years old can you please help me if so email me at tulipbunchyahoo.com thank you so much!!! The e-mail address is altered to protect the guilty, but the rest of the message is unretouched. hi my name is samantha, im 14 years old and i am looking for a job i know that you can work at mcdonalds when you are 14 i was wondering if you knew of any other places that i could work at, at my age i would appreciate a letter back from you thank you for reading my letter That's word for word. i am 14 years old and i live in brooklyn i am looking for a job can you help me please. please reply Verbatim, too. Somewhere, thanks to the Internet, something I wrote is giving young teens the impression that I can be their employment agent. Several times a day, especially now that summer looms, I receive such messages. These are typical. It's as if the national population of 14-year-olds has abandoned capitalization and punctuation. The above three messages came in the last few days. They are unusual in that there are no misspellings or grating grammar errors. They're actually not as hard to read as some. One could argue that the casual nature of instant messaging has created a different mind-set among young e-mail users. Perhaps the medium dictates the style, and they don't think it requires the same attention as, say, a school essay. But the mind-numbing constancy of these messages says to me that job readiness education is a good thing in middle schools and high schools. It also says that parents need a better clue about what their children are doing on the Web. First on the curriculum: Teach them that what's acceptable in instant messaging isn't appropriate for job hunting. Second: a word on e-mail addresses. Young job hunters need to hear that addresses such as babypimpdaddy and hotchickforyou don't project the maturity, responsibility and priorities an employer might expect. Third: tips on how to conduct a job search. Suggestions should start with sending inquiries to local employers and adults who know you and can vouch for your employability. (That is a lesson for job hunters of all ages: People who know you and know the quality of your work are your best references, referrals and potential hirers. That's good news for those with strong track records, not so good for those with checkered histories.) For teens with clean work slates, there's no better way to start an employment history than baby-sitting, pet-sitting, lawn mowing and the like. Build a record of dependable service so that customers other than your parents can be references. Then move on to the part-time grocery sacking and fast-food restaurant jobs. Don't overload your schedule. School must come first. Your attendance and academic records at school are far more important to future employers than what you've done for a paycheck. Finally, don't be in a hurry to work. Having your own money is nice, but it can be a misplaced priority. Then, when you must look for work, make sure your employment pitch doesn't look like fallout from an Internet chat room. 
