INFERNO CHARS 36,000 ACRES(a) (For use by N.Y. Times News Service clients)(a) By JUDD SLIVKA(a) c.2002 The Arizona Republic(a) (ELGIN, Arizona) - Thousands of acres of ranchland were charred and Fort Huachuca was virtually shut down Wednesday as the state's largest wildfire in five years raged through southern Arizona. About 75 percent of the ``Ryan'' fire, which roared across dry oak and brush, was contained by late Wednesday. Full containment was anticipated by tonight, said Chadeen Palmer, spokeswoman for a multiagency firefighting team. By Wednesday night, firefighters had contained the damage to the U.S. Army base's northwestern corner, and electrical power that had been knocked out for nearly 15 hours was restored in the afternoon. Gov. Jane Hull was expected to arrive today to inspect the damage total over three days: 36,000 acres burned, including 4,000 acres of the Appleton-Whittell Audubon Research Ranch near Elgin, as well as one house and two barns. ``Fortunately, the fire seems to have taken only the grass and appeared to leave the large trees and even desert plants. And none of the facility's buildings were damaged,'' Audubon Arizona Director Sam Campana said. Fire managers looked at Wednesday's effort as a resounding success. More than 500 firefighters, seven air tankers and five helicopters took advantage of a cloudy sky and lack of wind to corral the fire away from the 70 homes it had threatened between Sonoita and Huachuca City. What damage was done Wednesday was mainly due to the tinder-dry conditions of southern Arizona, which has been in the chokehold of drought for three years. The combination of high wind, warmer-than-usual temperatures and little, if any, rain have caused the four southernmost counties in the state to become a magnet for large fires. Just a month ago, a fire on Miller Peak in the Coronado National Forest threatened the Nature Conservancy's Ramsey Canyon Preserve, south of Sierra Vista. And before that fire, a series of smaller fires afflicted the southern portion of the state, running local fire departments ragged. The anticipated end of this fire erased fears of residents like winery owner Gary Ellam. He spent tense hours wondering if the fire would creep 2.8 miles to his place, the Village of Elgin Winery. ``This area is set up for fire protection as best we can,'' Elam said as he gazed at a smoke cloud on Wednesday. ``But, really, if the wind shifts, it's going to blow the fire back at us at 30 miles an hour, and there's nothing we can do.'' The wind speed on Wednesday was predicted to be 20 mph, with gusts to 30 mph, the same wind pattern as on Tuesday, when the fire exploded to a 30,000-acre conflagration from a 6,000-acre blaze. Early Wednesday, it appeared the wind was about to kick up again as crews and planes raced fingers of the fire to the tops of ridges to try to stop their spread. But the wind stayed relatively calm, never above 15 mph for a sustained period. Fire crews hope that such luck will be with them on the next wildfire. Jeff Whitney, deputy incident commander of the management team fighting the fire, had driven to the fire Tuesday afternoon from his home in Albuquerque. ``I was driving along the (Mogollon) Rim, and I saw how many of the trees haven't even greened up yet,'' he said of the dryness. ``And I thought to myself: `This is only May 1.' `` 
