One down and is all well? Yes, sort of. Mostly. There's no big problem, anyway. You're struggling here? The Los Angeles Lakers busted out of the playoffs with another sweep. Everything looks good, doesn't it? Sure, they look great. Only, there's something you can't quite put your finger on here. The Lakers dropped the Trail Blazers in three games, just like last year. Only, it doesn't feel quite like last year. It doesn't feel special. Like something is building with each passing game. Yeah, it's only been three games, but last year there was this undeniable sense that something remarkable was happening. You could feel it evolve. Feel the Lakers become more focused, more confident, more extraordinary. And this year they seem, what? Good enough? Just good enough? Really, very good, just not !ital!special!off!. Hey, guess what? That's absolutely fine. They might be just good enough to win another title. There's nothing wrong with that. They might struggle to the finish, and that's perfectly acceptable. The deal is to finish on top. ``Last year was a magical year,'' Lakers general manager Mitch Kupchak said. ``But you don't have to have a magical year to win a championship. All you have to do is advance.'' The Lakers might yet evolve this postseason into that special champion. Might pick it up in the next round. Step it up even more to meet the winner of Dallas-Sacramento. Then really strut their stuff in the Finals and finish something like last year's 15-1. Or maybe they'll prove to be more like the 2000 team that went 15-8, grunted and groaned its way to the title. If they win, most likely they'll prove to be something in between. And that's perfectly acceptable. You can lose 11 games in the postseason and if you win 15, they call you champion anyway. Against the Trail Blazers last week, the Lakers had to battle hard to hold Portland back in every game. They beat them by an average of 5.4 points. It took a lot of effort. Last year they eliminated the Blazers by an average of 14.7 points. Then they swept Sacramento and San Antonio, winning the last two games against the Spurs by an average of 34 points. No team ever went through the playoffs 15-1 before. They come back in the regular season and start 16-1, and you think we could be looking at the greatest team in NBA history. Then they stumble against every last-place team this side of the Atlantic, giving hope to each postseason opponent and pause to every Lakers fan. ``Part of that is all tied into expectations,'' Kupchak said. ``You start off 16-1 and think about what happened last year, all of a sudden expectations are win 65 games. Anything less, something is wrong. The bar is set high. It always has been. That's just what this group has to deal with.'' People want the Lakers pounding their chests and causing league-wide havoc. A machine, a scythe to the rest of the league wheat. Not just victories but domination! Relax, buckaroo. Take a breath. The Lakers remain the team to beat. Maybe they didn't completely distinguish themselves from the masses against Portland, but there is room to grow and a team capable of evolving again. Whether the next opponent is San Antonio or Seattle, the Lakers should survive. David Robinson's bad back portends nothing but trouble for the Spurs, and the Sonics don't have anyone who can even pretend to guard Shaquille O'Neal. Their most serious threat figures to emerge from the Kings-Mavs series (look for the Mavs in a wild one). Either team is capable of knocking off the Lakers. And it could well prove to be a great, close battle ... that the Lakers win. Because the Lakers have something that no other highly talented team in the NBA has right now. They have that intangible, that supreme belief in themselves. They have the same kind of confidence the Celtics used to have when breaking the Lakers' hearts in Game 7s almost every year in the '60s. ``They have a feeling at the end of a game, they're going to win,'' Kupchak said. ``If they go down in a series 0-1 or 1-1, they just feel they're going to win. ``I'll take our chances. We have great chemistry. The guys are feeling good and are healthy. We've played well enough. We can obviously play a lot better, but that's a good thing.'' If the Lakers go 15-6 in the postseason to win the title, people will not end up focusing on the six losses or how close some of the victories were. They'll focus on a team winning three consecutive championships. And that will be special. 
