J.P. Morgan Chase's ability to recover from a slew of recent losses rests largely in the hands of two men, who are both looking to restore tarnished reputations and may be considered for the top job someday. Geoffrey Boisi, now the co-head of J.P. Morgan's investment bank, left Goldman, Sachs &AMP; Co. more than a decade ago after executives say he lost out in a bid to lead that firm. David Coulter, who runs J.P. Morgan's consumer business, was chief executive of Bank of America until it merged with NationsBank, and a power struggle with Hugh McColl sent him out the door in 1998. At J.P. Morgan Chase, Boisi and Coulter have taken on jobs that are tough as well as critical. The men run businesses that accounted for 84 percent of J.P. Morgan Chase's operating revenue in the first quarter. But the bank has been struggling with lackluster performance since J.P. Morgan and Chase Manhattan merged at the end of 2000. Aside from disappointing results in investment banking _ because of slack demand for mergers and stock offerings _ the bank has lost money on some big corporate customers and on its investment portfolio, as well as in Argentina. The company's reputation has also been badly damaged by the bankruptcy filings of companies to whom it lent money, including Enron, Kmart and Global Crossing, as investors and competitors question the bank's judgment. These relationships mostly preceded Boisi's arrival. A slight improvement in results in the most recent quarter has quieted talk that William B. Harrison, Jr., 58, will soon be out of a job as chief executive. But some people close to the bank are continuing to handicap who might eventually succeed him. Boisi is eager for the job, said friends and colleagues who insisted on anonymity. But if the board were picking from within the bank right now, they said, Coulter would have the advantage. Besides having already run a bank, Coulter's business is now reporting strong earnings, while profits continue to fall at the investment bank run by Boisi. ``I am very comfortable with the management of the consumer business right now,'' said James Ellman, portfolio manager for the Merrill Lynch Global Financial Services Fund, which owns J.P. Morgan shares. ``David Coulter might be a dark horse to take over the firm.'' Ellman is less certain about the direction of the investment bank. ``I'm concerned with the risk management and the cost base,'' he said, although he adds that a market rebound could quickly change that business' prospects. A spokesman for J.P. Morgan, Joseph Evangelisti, declined to make Coulter or Boisi, each 54, available for interviews. Whether or not either man ultimately succeeds Harrison, shareholders have much riding on their performance. Though Coulter is doing well now, the bank has invested heavily in Boisi, who helps run the company's largest business. In July 2000, Harrison acquired the Beacon Group, a small investment bank that Boisi formed after leaving Goldman, for approximately $450 million, say executives familiar with the transaction. About a quarter of that sum went to Boisi. J.P. Morgan also won Coulter, who had joined Beacon Group months before the sale. Since the merger of J.P. Morgan and Chase, the investment bank has held steady or added to its share of certain parts of the business. In investment-grade debt, the bank was the second-largest underwriter, behind Citigroup, in the first quarter, for the second year in a row, according to Thomson Financial. J.P. Morgan has also gained share advising on mergers. The firm advised Lattice, a British utility, on its merger last month with National Grid, the largest deal announced so far this year. But analysts say there are so few deals that it is impossible to judge whether J.P. Morgan's market share gains will last when the merger pace picks up. ``The nature of the business is likely to be different,'' once the market recovers, said Diane Glossman, an analyst at UBS Securities. The bank is still struggling in equities, where it was well down the list at No. 10 in underwriting. That's up from seventeenth place a year ago, according to Thomson, but still a disappointing showing, analysts and competitors said. ``That's a big hole in their franchise,'' one competitor said, especially given that initial public offerings are the most lucrative business for investment banks. Boisi has been making the best of a bad environment. He has slashed expenses 24 percent since the end of 2000. Much of the savings have come from trimming staff. But with market activity still dismal, the cuts are not enough: the investment bank's profits before onetime charges were down 27 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier. To compensate for the weak markets, the bank is planning a third round of layoffs. In April, Boisi announced a staff reorganization aimed at making his smaller staff more productive. The reorganization involves creating a group of bankers who are experts on all products, from stocks to mergers. The system, similar to one he put in place at Goldman, is solely Boisi's creation, executives said. Donald Layton, the other investment banking head, is not involved. The changes, say executives close to the firm, have been disruptive to a staff that has already been through rounds of job cuts. ``People think he is trying to recreate Goldman Sachs,'' says an investment banker. ``Goldman is a pretty unique place. It's always risky to copy another firm's strategy.'' But if Boisi's reorganization is soon followed by a revival in investment banking, it could bolster his profile inside J.P. Morgan. ``If he succeeds in this turnaround, there won't be anyone who can touch him,'' said one executive of Boisi's career prospects at J.P. Morgan. If Boisi is facing an uphill battle in a tough market, Coulter is benefiting from an environment where consumers, wary of a volatile stock market, are choosing to put more money on deposit at the bank. Deposits at Chase branches rose 5 percent in the first quarter. In credit cards, the bank's growth is outpacing that of competitors. Outstanding credit card balances rose 31 percent in the quarter, helped by the acquisition of about $8 billion in balances from Providian, as well as the addition of 949,000 new accounts. In 2001, Chase's outstanding credit card balances grew 13 percent, outpacing the 9 percent average in the industry, according to David Robertson, president of the Nilson Report, which tracks the card industry. ``This stopped a multiyear slide in market share,'' he said. The increase in credit card balances contributed to a 25 percent jump in profits for the consumer business in the first quarter, before merger and other restructuring charges. The business' strong performance enabled the bank overall to beat analysts' expectations for the latest quarter, despite an 18 percent decline in earnings, and helped reverse a slide in the bank's stock, which has been up 3.5 percent since earnings were announced. No matter how good a job Coulter or Boisi does, there is always the chance that Harrison's successor will come from outside the bank. The bank could also choose from among several other seasoned executives, including Layton, who has long supervised the bank's fixed-income trading, where profits rose sharply in the latest quarter. Then there's Marc Shapiro, who oversees finance and risk management and was once chief executive of Texas Commerce, which was acquired by a J.P. Morgan predecessor. But Shapiro, who has been in the spotlight during the Enron debacle, is from Houston and has said he is eager to move back there. 
