When federal investigators began their study of the collapse of the twin towers in October, they planned to evaluate exactly how structural steel, floor supports, fireproofing and other building components gave way in a deadly sequence of failures after hijacked jets first rammed the towers and set them on fire. But six months later, the investigators have concluded that they are unable to provide a comprehensive analysis of how well the building and its structural elements performed, and as a result, they cannot say if the building hadspecific weaknesses. The inability to determine whether the building had certain weaknesses, the investigators have concluded in a formal report, means they cannot responsibly answer the question of whether other buildings across the country might be vulnerable, as well. The investigators are expected to make their findings public when they present their final report to Congress Wednesday in Washington. The reason for that frustrating conclusion, the report says, is that national fire tests and standards proved virtually useless in evaluating how building components behaved in the raging fires that followed the plane impacts. Without a meaningful standard against which to measure the performance of the two towers, the investigators decided, there was no way to say fairly whether they held up adequately or failed before they should have. The report is remarkably blunt in deriding the fire tests that assess the safety of virtually every large building constructed in the United States _ a set of tests that rely largely on exposing building parts to natural-gas flames in kiln-like furnaces. The method does not provide sufficient information to determine how long a part of an actual building can be expected to perform in an actual fire, the report says. In part because of those inadequacies, the collapse of the towers and a third skyscraper, 7 World Trade Center, as well as partial failures in another large office building on the site, have exposed a sobering gap in the nation's knowledge of how its buildings will perform in large fires, blasts or other disasters in the future, says the report, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the American Society of Civil Engineers. Before these events, no protected steel-frame structure, the most common form of large commercial construction in the United States, had ever experienced a fire-induced collapse, the report says. Thus, these events may highlight new building vulnerabilities, not previously believed to exist. (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.) Rep. Sherwood L. Boehlert, R-N.Y., chairman of the House Science Committee, where Wednesday's hearing will take place, said those findings were likely to provoke serious concerns among many people who build, study and live in high-rise buildings. ``One of the things you have to acknowledge is what you don't know,'' Boehlert said. ``We want to recommend immediate action to, as much as humanly possible, prevent a disaster of this magnitude from ever happening again.'' Dr. Yogesh Jaluria, a professor of mechanical and aerospace engineering at Rutgers who does research on combustion and building fires, said the criticisms of the standard tests would cause little surprise among fire experts. ``Many of the tests are fine when you are dealing with relatively small-scale fires,'' Jaluria said. ``Once you are dealing with the magnitude of the fires that we saw in the World Trade Center, you are talking about scenarios which have not been thought of at all in the tests.'' The team's findings, along with concern over missteps in the investigation, have led Boehlert and Rep. Anthony D. Weiner, D-N.Y., to draft legislation that would give wide powers, including the right to issue subpoenas, to teams investigating building failures. During the investigation, team members charged that bureaucratic inertia within the Federal Emergency Management Agency slowed or prevented access to important building records. Under the draft bill, the teams would be centered at the National Institute of Standards and Technology, called NIST, whose building and fire research laboratory in Maryland has conducted extensive investigations of building failures in the past, said David Goldston, chief of staff for the House Science Committee. The bill would also give subpoena power to investigators who are moving forward with the inquiry into the collapse of the towers. The Bush administration has requested $16 million for the institute to expand the trade center investigation. Some fire experts, scientists and family members of trade center victims said the inconclusive ending of the study demonstrated that it had been too feeble and poorly organized from the start. ``This was not an investigation,'' said Monica Gabrielle, whose husband, Richard, was lost in the south tower and who is a member of the Skyscraper Safety Campaign, which has formed around bereaved families. ``Going forward, we just need to toss this thing. We need NIST to have subpoena power and full funding to conduct a full investigation.'' 
