Gov. George Pataki has drafted a congressional redistricting plan that would eliminate the seats of two Democrats, Carolyn Maloney of Manhattan and Maurice Hinchey of Saugerties, according to officials who have seen parts of the plan or discussed it with the governor's aides. The plan, parts of which Pataki aides showed to members of Congress and their staffs on Tuesday and Wednesday, defies the conventional logic that New York will sacrifice one Democrat and one Republican. Under the reapportionment following the 2000 census, the state loses two of its 31 seats in the House of Representatives this year, and it is up to the Legislature and the governor to decide how to draw the lines. Michael McKeon, Pataki's communications director, would not say whether the governor's office had a plan that focused on Maloney and Hinchey, though several members of Congress and congressional aides from both parties said the governor's office had circulated it in Washington. ``We're continuing to look at a number of ideas, and anyone who suggests that the governor has made up his mind hasn't talked to the governor,'' McKeon said. Officials here and in Washington say they have been told that Pataki intends to submit his plan on Monday to U.S. District Court in Manhattan, which will hear a redistricting lawsuit that was filed pre-emptively, in anticipation of civil rights claims. ``That's an option that we're looking at,'' McKeon said. Eliminating two seats held by Democrats is very unlikely, both politically _ the Democrats who control the Assembly would strongly resist such a move _ and mathematically. Republican legislators and their aides have abandoned the idea of carving up two Democratic districts because it would push large numbers of Democratic voters into Republicans' districts, undermining their hold on their seats. New York's delegation now has 19 Democrats and 12 Republicans. But the governor's plan puts him into a fight that leaders of the Assembly and Senate have insisted is theirs to resolve. It also makes his camp the first of the three to construct a proposal and put it on paper, which legislators say could give him a psychological edge, making his congressional lines the starting point for the coming struggle. The Republican leaders of the Senate are preparing a plan of their own that would create two so-called fair-fight districts, pitting incumbents against each other, rather than slicing up two districts and distributing the pieces among their neighbors. ``We're exploring where we could set up two fair fights, Democrat versus Republican,'' said state Sen. Dean Skelos, the leader of the Senate's redistricting efforts. The likeliest downstate match-up, according to several prominent Republicans, is Eliot Engel, a Democrat whose district includes the north Bronx and part of Westchester County, against Benjamin Gilman, a Republican whose district extends from Westchester, across Rockland County and into the Catskills. Several upstate match-ups are being considered, officials said, including one between Thomas Reynolds, a Republican from western New York, and Louise M. Slaughter, a Democrat from Rochester. Historically, what are billed as fair fights between incumbents rarely are, and legislators in both parties said that if those were the pairings, they would probably be created to favor Engel and Reynolds. Reynolds is a favorite of both the governor, the House Republican leadership and the White House. Some Republicans consider Gilman expendable because of his age, 79, his fairly liberal record and the fact that his district could easily go to a Democrat after he retires. (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.) Assembly Democrats say they are not close to offering even a rough proposal. Several say Speaker Sheldon Silver has indicated that he would be content to throw the process to the courts in the belief that the result would favor Democrats, but Silver insists that he would not do that. In a month, candidates are scheduled to begin to collect the signatures needed to put them on the ballot, but that process cannot begin until the district boundaries are in place. In 1992 and 1982, redistricting took so long that the Legislature was forced to postpone the signature-collection period, and in 1982, it also postponed the primary elections. Before a plan can take effect, it must be approved by the Justice Department and the courts to ensure that minority voting rights are not infringed upon, further slowing the process. Rather than wait for lawmakers to produce a final plan and risk missing deadlines again, last Friday a three-judge panel in federal court appointed a special master, Frederick B. Lacey, to draft a plan. The court's action signals to the Legislature and Pataki that if they do not create an acceptable plan in due time, the court will do it for them. Lawmakers here do not want that because their own plan would strive to protect the incumbent members of Congress they are allied with, while a court-imposed plan would probably not. 
