WORLD NEWS IN BRIEF  c.2002 New York Times News Service 	EUROPE 	RUSSIA: EDITOR SHOT TO DEATH 	A newspaper editor in the central city of Togliatti has been killed after publishing articles on corruption in the local government and on ties between local criminal groups and the automobile producer Avtovaz, which is based in the city. A report on the Internet news service Gazeta.ru said Valery Ivanov had died from six bullet wounds in his head and chest. Ivanov was also the general director of a local television station whose previous two directors were killed, according to Gazeta.ru. 	AMERICAS 	MEXICO: FREEDOM OF INFORMATION 	The Senate unanimously approved the nation's first freedom of information law, requiring the government to open records and files to the public. The law, which has been approved by the lower house, is considered an important step toward ending seven decades of government corruption and abuses shrouded by secrecy. It requires all branches of government to provide documents within 20 days to any citizen who requests them. Officials can withhold records only if their release endangers public or national security, or violates individual confidentiality. A commission is to monitor agencies' compliance. 	MEXICO: IF YOU CAN'T BEAT 'EM ... 	The governors of four Mexican states bordering the United States are thinking about decriminalizing marijuana. The governor of Chihuahua, Patricio Martinez, said the idea arose because ``what has been done to date hasn't worked, because drug consumption keeps rising, in spite of the wars waged against it.'' Much of the marijuana sold in the United States is grown in Mexico and trucked across the border. 	MIDDLE EAST 	IRAN: WORKERS PROTEST IN TEHRAN 	Nearly 5,000 workers marched in Tehran demanding higher pay and better job security. The march followed demonstrations last month by factory workers around the country demanding back wages. The protests stem from the bankruptcies of outdated government-run factories and layoffs in newly privatized businesses. 	ASIA 	CHINA: HEROS OF CAPITALISM 	The world's last major Communist power celebrated May Day by naming some private businessmen as ``model workers,'' an honor once reserved for plumbers and plasterers, welders and wheelwrights and other exemplary members of the proletariat. The government-sponsored All-China Federation of Trade Unions awarded medals to the heads of four privately owned companies; another 17 businessmen were declared ``model workers'' in the northwestern province of Shaanxi, where Mao once made his revolutionary headquarters. 	AFRICA 	CONGO: U.N. EFFORT TO REVIVE PEACE TALKS 	A U.N. Security Council team visited rebels and Rwandan troops ensconced in the eastern city of Kisangani to try to resurrect peace talks. Recent negotiations failed after the Rwandans and their rebel allies, who have long controlled the Congo River town, which is rich in diamonds and lumber, refused to accept President Joseph Kabila as head of an interim government. 	ZIMBABWE: THREE JOURNALISTS ARRESTED 	Two Zimbabweans and an American have been arrested and accused of publishing false news after reporting accusations made by the opposition party that a supporter was beheaded by government-backed militants. Opposition officials, who say they were misled, say they believe the incident was set up to sully the party's reputation. Editors at The Daily News, the country's only private daily newspaper, which had two reporters arrested, have acknowledged that the story was false. The third reporter, Andrew Meldrum, an American citizen who writes for the British newspaper The Guardian, has been called a ``terrorist'' by officials for writing articles critical of the government. The arrests came as the government celebrated Zimbabwe's election to a seat on the U.N. Human Rights Commission. 
