Here are the stories New York Times editors are planning for Page 1, Thursday, May 2. The NYT frontpage advisory, with layout description, will move by 7:30 p.m. ET. The night supervisor for The New York Times News Service is Pat Ryan; phone: 888-346-9867 or 212-556-1927; e-mail: patryan(at)nytimes.com. 	MIDEAST (Ramallah, West Bank) _ A ledeall: Six wanted Palestinians were escorted out of Yasser Arafat's battered offices Wednesday night and whisked away in a convoy of U.S. and British armored cars, a diplomatic breakthrough that effectively ends Arafat's weeks-long confinement by Israeli troops. At the same time, some Israeli armored vehicles began pulling out of Arafat's compound, part of a planned withdrawal from the entire city. Other developments, on the U.N. Jenin mission and at the standoff in Bethlehem. (Summary from wires) (Staff byline TK) 	With photos, NYT11-14, and a map. 	AFGHAN (Khost, Afghanistan) _ Developing. Two senior Afghan commanders here said Wednesday that they had been involved in six commando operations in the past three weeks, each involving hundreds of American and British soldiers. While these large operations have netted a respectable amount of weapons and ammunition, they have not managed to kill any Qaida soldiers and have arrested but two suspects. By Barry Bearak. 	GORE-LIEBERMAN (Walla Walla, Wash.) _ A Political Memo: Al Gore is back in full force on the campaign trail. So is Joe Lieberman. The problem is, they both want to be president. A look at the awkward relationship between the two, how they are positioning themselves for 2002 and, more importantly, for 2004. By Richard L. Berke. 	RAC-DERBY-CAREERS (Louisville, Ky.) _ A full field of 20 horses is expected for the 128th Kentucky Derby on Saturday, and at approximately 6:07 p.m. one of them will amble into the most famous winners' circle in America. But if recent history is a guide, the Derby winner will not last long in the nation's sports consciousness, and enthusiasm over the annual quest for a Triple Crown champion will give way to a familiar summertime lament: Where have all the great horses gone? The answer is to the commercial breeding shed where the prospect of millions of dollars has lured potential superstars from the racetrack. This development has benefited the horse farms, especially in Kentucky, but it is troubling for some in an industry trying to find a lasting foothold in a sports market crowded with everything from the National Basketball Association to NASCAR and all possessing a healthy concentration of stars. By Joe Drape. 	WTC-FEMA (New York) _ The Federal Emergency Management Agency has announced that it will review thousands of requests in which it had earlier denied assistance to families in the wake of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. The agency's role in the continuing relief efforts is critically important because major charities have for months been sharply curtailing assistance to economic victims of the attacks, and unemployment benefits will soon expire. By Diana B. Henriques. 	WTC-SCHOOL-CHILDREN (New York) _ Tens of thousands of public school children in New York City are experiencing chronic nightmares, fear of public places, severe anxiety and other mental health problems in the wake of the World Trade Center attack, a study conducted for the Board of Education has found. School officials say the study provides the most comprehensive look ever at the psychological impact of a major disaster on school children. The study is also expected to help parents and teachers recognize symptoms that children might be experiencing in the wake of a calamity that left most adults badly shaken. By Abby Goodnough. 	MORTGAGE-DELINQUENCY (Richmond, Va.) _ The recession has caused many lower-income people to fall behind on their mortgage loans, but many banks have not foreclosed. Instead, lenders have restructured many loans, in the hope that the drops in borrowers' incomes turn out to be temporary. Now, as the economy continues to show signs of emerging from recession, things seem to be working out for lenders: at the end of last year, delinquencies fell for the first time in almost a year. By David Leonhardt. 	With a graphic. 	(Editors: All clients receive all budgets, but only full-service clients receive all stories. Please check your level of service to determine which stories you will receive.) 
