TECHNOLOGY NEWS IN BRIEF  c.2002 New York Times News Service 	EXECUTIVE SHIFT AT PALM 	Palm Inc., the maker of hand-held computers and software, said Thursday that Todd Bradley, currently the chief operating officer of the company's Solutions group, would become its president as well. He will be primarily responsible for the company's hand-held computer hardware. The move can be seen as a step toward the division of Palm into separate hardware and software companies. ``We're building the management bench strength we need to support the eventual external separation of our two Palm businesses,'' said the chief executive, Eric Benhamou, in a statement. 	STRONG CHIP SALES IN MARCH 	Chip sales in March fell 25 percent from the previous year but recorded the strongest month-to-month increase since 1986, a trade association reported Thursday. The Semiconductor Industry Association said the short-term growth suggested that chip makers have worked through much of their excess inventory, and demand for electronics has begun to rise. Global sales in March were $10.75 billion, rising 7.2 percent from February. The sales fell sharply from the $14.41 billion reported in March 2001, but the 25-percent decline was the narrowest in months. Revenue increased in all regions, led by higher prices in dynamic random access memory, or DRAM, chips. 	HEWLETT-PACKARD TO CHANGE SYMBOL 	Hewlett-Packard, which announced on Wednesday that its proposed merger with Compaq Computer had been formally approved in a shareholder vote, said Thursday that it would change its NYSE trading symbol from HWP to HPQ on Monday, May 6. Hewlett expects to close its merger on May 3. The trading of Compaq common stock will be suspended before the opening of the market on May 6. Compaq shares, which currently trade on the under the symbol CPQ, will be suspended prior to the market's opening on Monday, the company said. It will officially introduce itself with a ceremony on Tuesday. Shares in Hewlett-Packard closed the day at $17.10, up 24 cents, or 1.42 percent. Compaq shares also closed up, ending the day at $10.79. 
