The Sonics rolled to a 91-79 victory last night at KeyArena, recovering from a 102-75 defeat last Saturday in Game 2. After being criticized for not outplaying Spurs rookie Tony Parker in the series, Gary Payton produced a triple-double with 28 points, 12 rebounds and 11 assists. Vladimir Radmanovic, who has stumbled through the postseason because of a sprained big toe, suddenly exploded, hitting his first seven shots, including five 3-pointers. Radmanovic ended up with 23 points, 19 in the first half. ``We got it to him and he let it fly,'' Payton said. ``If you've got the confidence, your teammates will pass you the ball and there's no reason to not play good,'' Radmanovic said. The rookie was hot and the action was heated: The Sonics and Spurs twice went at each other, with Brent Barry and Bruce Bowen mixing it up on the undercard, followed by Desmond Mason and Mark Bryant in the main event. Each player drew a technical foul for what were mostly minor skirmishes. Bryant, however, was ejected for being overly aggressive in his battle with Mason. The Spurs forward looked like he might have thrown a punch. It didn't connect. But if the NBA rules that he did throw a punch, Bryant would be suspended for the final game of the series. ``We got tangled up a little bit,'' Mason said. ``I tried to get up and he held me down. He reacted, I reacted. It's two competitive guys trying to win. I got bumped, grabbed and held by guys all over the floor. They were trying to intimidate us. It didn't work.'' ``There were some dirty tactics to try and rile us up,'' Vin Baker said. ``It was rough. Their tactics are going to look like a Swedish massage compared to what's going to happen in Game 5.'' The Sonics retaliated with Payton leading the way with his spectacular, versatile play, prompting a victory celebration with green-and-gold streamers dropping from the ceiling. ``It's playoff basketball,'' Payton said. ``You have to respond.'' Asked about his triple-double, Payton said: ``I don't care about that. I'm just trying to get a win. I come to play every night.'' ``Gary Payton is their Tim Duncan,'' said Spurs guard Antonio Daniels. ``Everything goes through him. He's the key to their team.'' Game 5 will be played tomorrow night at the Alamodome. The winner will advance to face the Los Angeles Lakers in the Western Conference semifinals. Game 1 of that series will be played Sunday afternoon at Staples Center. If the Sonics make it that far, it would be an astounding turn of events. They looked to be finished last Saturday, losing Game 3 by 27 points, not having any logical reasons to think that last night's outcome would be any different. But then they learned that the Spurs would be playing without Duncan, who went to the Virgin Islands to be with his family after his father died on Monday. David Robinson and Danny Ferry sat out because of injuries, leaving the Spurs depleted and vulnerable. The Sonics took advantage, building a nine-point lead in the first nine minutes, nearly duplicating what they did in Game 2, feeding off the crowd. The Spurs called a timeout, but this time they didn't score 10 consecutive points to take the lead. Rather, they fell farther behind, victimized by an 18-2 run triggered by Payton, Baker and Radmanovic. Payton found Radmanovic for a pair of threes, and Mason capped the flurry with a slam off another assist from Payton. That fast break was started by a Jerome James rejection of Cherokee Parks. The Spurs weren't pathetic; they were horrific. In the first quarter, they went 4-for-21. Daniels took the first shot of the second quarter, and it was an airball. The Spurs went on to miss their next six field-goal attempts and three free throws in an all-around display of poor shooting. It grew to comical proportions. At one point, the Spurs were 5-for-32, hitting one of their first 11 shots in the second quarter. The Sonics ran up and down the floor, benefiting from Duncan's absence, whipping in front 57-31 at halftime. Powered by Radmanovic's 7-for-7 performance, the Sonics made 61 percent of their shots in the first half. The Spurs were 10 of 40, forming icicles at 25 percent. The previously unstoppable Parker missed nine of his first 10 shots and didn't penetrate for his first layin until 32 seconds remained in the first half Trailing by as many as 28 points, the Spurs closed the gap to 76-61 on a Terry Porter layin. There was some anxiety at that point, but Payton dispelled the doubt by connecting on a pair of jumpers and finding Randy Livingston for a culminating layin to yet another Sonics fast break. The Spurs were led by Malik Rose, who had 28 points and 13 rebounds. Parker, who scored a career-high 23 points in Game 2, finished with 14 points on 6-for-18 shooting. The Spurs will be heavily favored in Game 5, but the Sonics are excited to have the opportunity. They have already proven they can win at the Alamodome, prevailing 98-90 in Game 2. The Sonics also realize they can go toe-to-toe with the Spurs, splitting eight games this season and standing up to their physical tactics last night. The Spurs, 3-1 against the Sonics at the Alamodome this season, are expected to have Duncan back for Game 5. Duncan is averaging 26.7 points, 11.7 rebounds, 6.3 assists and 5.3 blocks in the series. Robinson's status, as well as Ferry's, will be determined today. Robinson, the future Hall of Famer, has not played since Game 1 because of a sore back, and Ferry suffered a sprained wrist in Game 3. As a seventh-seeded team, the Sonics can have a carefree attitude, which should help offset the hostile conditions. ``We're not supposed to win the series,'' Barry said. And now they just might. 
