He has been jilted and he has done some jilting, but Marvin Lewis finds himself the defensive coordinator for the Washington Redskins. Not a head coach. Not yet. He sure looked to be headed for a top job after the Baltimore Ravens won the Super Bowl 15 months ago as his defense carved the way by allowing the fewest points in league history (165) in a 16-game season. But after that gem and another season in which his defense ranked No. 2, several head coaching jobs opened up and Lewis was denied. A few weeks ago Lewis pulled an I'm-Not-Going, er, excuse me, Yes-I-Am lateral move from the Ravens to the Redskins, from the American Football Conference to the National Football Conference, from the outer edges to inside the Beltway. The stimulus for the move to Washington? The Tampa Bay Buccaneers pulled a You-Are-Our-Coach, er, excuse us, No-You-Are-Not on Lewis. Pardon Lewis if his head is still spinning. ``This is a new challenge and it is not necessarily the challenge I wanted,'' Lewis, 43, said. ``On the other hand, I don't know, maybe it is not my path in life to be an NFL head coach. What I learned in Baltimore was priceless. I'll learn a lot here. So, if the chance ever comes around, I'll be even more prepared. ``It is human nature to doubt. Players do. Coaches do. But erasing doubt allows people to be successful. This is my profession and I take it seriously; it's one where players and coaches evolve. I've got a bunch of guys around here with this team who have something to prove, and those are the kind of guys you want.'' As far as NFL owners are concerned, Lewis is that kind of coordinator _ one with something more to prove. Actually, that perception is ridiculous. Lewis has been a college and pro coach for 21 years, the last 12 in the NFL and the last six as defensive coordinator for Baltimore. In each of the last three seasons, his defense ranked No. 2, and his Super Bowl XXXV-winning defense shattered nearly every meaningful record. Yet, men who have accomplished less have leaped past him into head coaching jobs. Lewis will not say that it is all about race but, of course, race matters. Two things about his move to Washington are striking. First, he received a $300,000 signing bonus and will earn nearly $1 million a year over the next three seasons, making him the highest-paid assistant coach in league history. Second, as in Baltimore, he joins a team that is supposed to be feared for its offense and the wizardry of its offensive-minded head coach, but could again end up to be a team that wins primarily with defense, and with Lewis as a central figure. Steve Spurrier, Washington's head coach, said the latter suits him fine. ``If my offense doesn't score a touchdown in five straight games, they might be getting a new coach around here,'' Spurrier said, referring to the Ravens' offensive problems during their Super Bowl run. ``I enjoy winning much more than I do getting lots of yards and points on offense. If we need to manage games and take care of leads, I'm for that. I'm for winning. ``Marvin's defenses put players in position to have excellent vision on the quarterback. We're both demanding about little things and about the mental game. He knows how to coach 'em and teach 'em. That's what matters.'' The Tampa Bay general manager, Rich McKay, thought so. That is why after two weeks of discussions he was prepared to hire Lewis as his coach. But on Feb. 7 in Washington, everything changed when Lewis met with the Malcom Glazer family, which owns the Buccaneers. Between that Thursday and the next Monday, Lewis' life became a twister. On Thursday night, after a nearly five-hour interview that he thought would be more or less a coronation, Lewis discovered that the Glazers were more interested in whom Lewis thought the Bucs should hire rather than in hiring him. The next morning he was told he was not the Bucs' coach. That afternoon Spurrier called. That night Lewis thought it over and decided he would stay with Baltimore. On Saturday morning Daniel Snyder the Washington owner, called. On Sunday Lewis met Snyder and Spurrier at Snyder's sister's home in Potomac, Md. By late Sunday he had changed his mind and told the Ravens. At 4 a.m. on Monday he was at the Ravens' complex to clear out his desk. ``The Glazer family wanted an offensive coach _ McKay wanted the best coach available,'' Lewis said. ``Not only was my salary being doubled here but I was told, `Here's the defense; run it.' They convinced me that my credibility would increase if I came here and helped build another championship defense. And I liked how competitive, candid and simplistic Steve Spurrier was in his approach with me and in football.'' Thus, a change of dollars, heart and teams. Lewis believes in building his defense on tenacious cornerbacks, rushers and playmakers. He has plenty of that on the Redskins' defense and a crew of linebackers _ LaVar Arrington, Jeremiah Trotter and Jessie Armstead _ who were all Pro Bowl linebackers last season (Trotter, from Philadelphia, and Armstead, from the Giants, were signed as free agents). The defense is being built with Arrington, Trotter, and cornerbacks Champ Bailey and Fred Smoot as its cornerstones _ all four are 25 or younger. ``No one left our minicamp last week without being impressed with Marvin,'' the veteran defensive end Bruce Smith said. ``His mentality and approach of being aggressive and not just asking guys to sit at the line of scrimmage got people excited. Now it's up to us to make it work. His system has been proven to work. It's up to the players to have the right attitude and approach and get to training camp and conform to the system in a hurry.'' It was two years ago that the Redskins assembled a talented defense led by Deion Sanders. The team flopped, finishing with an 8-8 record. Lewis knows that talent alone does not win. A mental transformation is required. And Lewis knows plenty about that. ``The best players are the best workers,'' he said. ``The best defenses aren't afraid to take risks to be better than average. There is no magic dust. I have no magic defensive calls. I know that I'm only as good as my last game. I've got some work to do.'' 
