In 1993, the year Texas decided to allow girls to play high school football, Tammie Overstreet finally got her chance. The sports-loving senior in Pittsburg, a smallish town in East Texas, had always wanted to join her school team. For years she'd been playing pick-up football games with the boys, most of whom she'd known all her life. When Overstreet made the varsity team that fall, she was excited, but figured it wasn't that big a deal. But then the news got out. As one of only a handful of girls to make their school teams in Texas that year _ and the only one who wasn't a kicker, but was big and strong enough to play the physically demanding offensive line _ Overstreet was an instant media star. TV crews and reporters came from Dallas and Longview, Texas, even national news programs, just to see the girl who played football. Her story was reprinted a few years later in a national sports anthology. And even now, nearly 10 years after the fact, her photograph _ helmet in hand, hand over heart, as she listens to the pre-game national anthem _ is part of a national touring photo exhibit on what sports mean to women. It's hard to imagine a better poster girl for ``Game Face: What Does a Female Athlete Look Like?'', the photo exhibit that opens Friday at The Women's Museum: An Institute for the Future, in Dallas. `` `Game Face' is very much designed to give girls an alternative to some of the really defeating depictions of femaleness and womanhood that they get from the mass media,'' says exhibit co-curator Jane Gottesman. Rather than try to put all girls and women who play sports into one camera-ready, airbrushed box, the exhibit shows that female athletes come in all ages, colors, shapes and sizes; that sports can be just as important to everyday athletes as to world-class stars; that there's intrinsic value in just letting girls play. ``I had wanted to play (football) so bad, so I loved it, I really did,'' recalls Overstreet, now a 26-year-old nurse who still lives in Pittsburg. ``There's a girl playing right now in Longview, and she's really good. I'm not saying she wouldn't have played if I hadn't, but maybe I made it a little bit easier for her to do it.'' It was nearly 10 years ago that Gottesman, then a sportswriter at the ``San Francisco Chronicle,'' got the idea for what would become Game Day. (In addition to the exhibit, which premiered last summer at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C., the project also includes a photo book with essays, an education program for junior-high-age students, and even a Girl Scouts patch.) Flipping through her own sports section day after day, Gottesman, a former college lacrosse player, realized how infrequently women athletes were pictured. She started monitoring magazines like ``Sports Illustrated'' and realized the situation was even worse. Women only made the cover of ``SI'' when they were portrayed as victims (skater Nancy Kerrigan after being clubbed in the knee) or vixens (the ubiquitous swimsuit models or Tonya Harding, demonized as the bad-girl skater linked to Kerrigan's attack). ``I started thinking about the women athletes I knew, and they didn't look like either victims or vixen,'' says Gottesman, 35. ``But there was a lot of confusion, a sort of belief that for a woman athlete to be accepted, she had to fit into some narrow model of beauty.'' Gottesman wrote an essay on the subject for her newspaper, but it wasn't enough. She started searching for more images of women and girls in sports, hoping to show the world what a female athlete really looks like. Eventually, she and co-curator Geoffrey Biddle would look at more than 200,000 photos, narrowing the field to 139 photos for the show and 182 in the accompanying book, also called ``Game Face'' (Random House, $35). Some of the contributing photographer are famous, including Mary Ellen Mark, Annie Leibovitz and Ansel Adams, whose 1943 photo of girls playing volleyball at a Japanese-American relocation camp during World War II is included. Some of the photographs are famous, too _ the opening shot for both the book and the exhibit is the well-known image of U.S. soccer star Brandi Chastain kneeling on the field, her jersey in her hand, exuberantly celebrating her team's World Cup win. Others are of world-class athletes _ Chris Evert, Martina Navratilova, Jackie Joyner-Kersee, Marion Jones, cyclist Rebecca Twigg, table-tennis champion Lily Yip and swimmer Amanda Beard are pictured, often in gripping action shots. But the bulk of the photos are of ordinary girls and women, engaged in what, for them, are ordinary activities. There are high school basketball players running onto the court, a little girl with a Hula Hoop, a softball player holding the ball out insistently to an umpire, with the classic ``I got her!'' expression on her face. There are antique images, like a 1900s-era pole vaulter in a track jumpsuit that covered her ankles, and a 1908 tennis player in full-length skirt and prim bonnet. There are cheerleaders, runners, golfers, swimmers, dancers, roller derby skaters, soccer players and rowers, and beautiful shots like the black-and-white image of a girl standing on a playground swing, capturing that childhood fantasy of feeling what it's like to fly. Just as Gottesman hoped, some of these less celebrated images are the most affecting ones, showing that sports and physical activity can cut across gender, age and racial lines, and that they can teach girls about more than winning and losing. Photographer Patricia Richards of Plano, Texas, captured that in 1989 with an image of her daughter at age 10, pitching in a neighborhood game of girls vs. boys softball in the street outside their home. ``There was no question in the girls' mind, they absolutely expected to win, which I thought was just wonderful,'' Richards says. ``I think sometimes we lose that innate sense of self-confidence when we enter the world, and we're told, no, you can't do that. I think (girls) need that reminder that once, at that particular place and time, they really did feel they owned the world.'' Thirty years after Title IX was instituted, intending to level the field between male and female athletes in schools, the creators of `Game Face' think there's still a need to raise those issues, especially with youth. Gottesman and Biddle expect to roll out an education program to middle school students later this year. Part of the program is a set of cards bearing photos from the exhibit, with suggested questions for discussion, some of which move beyond sports into such topics as age or weight discrimination and gender roles. For instance, one card shows Olympic weightlifter Cheryl Haworth wearing a Spandex competition uniform and matter-of-factly hoisting a huge log over her head. At nearly 300 pounds, Haworth doesn't fit many people's idea of a world-class athlete, especially not for a woman, Biddle says. ``But she's wearing what looks like an Olympic outfit, lifting this log, and looking at the camera with enormous poise and comfort in who she is,'' Biddle says. ``So right there you have a challenge to your expectations, something that challenges not just your ideas about sports but about feminine ideals and the roles of men and women.'' Indeed, middle-schoolers who helped test the cards initially thought Haworth couldn't be an athlete, Biddle says. But the ensuing discussions helped them realize successful athletes don't always look like the pictures on the Wheaties box, he says. And that's precisely the point Gottesman and Biddle and their small Game Face staff want to make. With other projects looming _ a ``Game Face'' documentary is in the planning stage _ Gottesman admits her original goal, to change the world, is still in the back of her mind. But she'd settle for helping more girls see that sports can and should be part of their lives, and they should feel free to be who they want, even if that means doing something society traditionally tells girls not to do. Somewhere, somehow, that message seems to be getting through. In 1993, the year Tammie Overstreet suited up for the Pittsburg Pirates, only eight girls played on their school football teams in Texas. Seven years later, in the fall of 2000, there were more than 600. ``Game Face: What Does a Female Athlete Look Like?'' Through July 28 at The Women's Museum: An Institute for the Future 3800 Parry Ave., Dallas (214) 915-0860 www.thewomensmuseum.org Free-$5 For more info on ``Game Face,'' see www.gamefaceonline.org. (Visit the Star-Telegram's online services on the World Wide Web: www.star-telegram.com) nn 
