Merrill Lynch &AMP; Co. is considering a simpler stock-rating system that would make more frequent use of a word seldom heard on Wall Street: sell. Merrill may scrap its complex rating system and start speaking in terms all investors can understand, according to people close to the planning. Every stock would be rated buy, hold or sell. A Merrill spokeswoman declined to comment. Merrill officials had already contemplated such a change before the firm became embroiled in a state investigation into the actions of the firm's Internet stock analysts, the people close to the planning said. Last month, Eliot L. Spitzer, the attorney general of New York, accused the analysts of hiding negative opinions about companies so that Merrill could get or keep their investment banking business. In an affidavit filed in New York state Supreme Court, Spitzer contended that ``the pressures put on the Merrill Lynch Internet group to appease both investment bankers and clients'' had led the group to use only the top three ratings of what then was a five-point scale. Merrill switched last summer to using four numbers _ down from five _ to rate every stock on both its near-term and long-term prospects. That change left investors to decipher ratings like ``1/1'' or ``3/2.'' Spitzer is negotiating a settlement with Merrill that will probably include several changes to insulate the firm's analysts from investment bankers and try to restore confidence in the analysts' opinions. In the meantime, Merrill has held off changing its rating system as planned, these people said. That switch would be a departure from standard practices at big securities firms, which until recently almost never came right out and told investors to sell a stock. Such reluctance helped to raise questions about analysts' motives in the stock boom of the late 1990s and ultimately led to investigations by Spitzer and, in the last few weeks, other states' securities regulators and the Securities and Exchange Commission. To address those concerns, some securities firms have changed their stock rating systems. In March, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, a Merrill rival for investment banking business, began rating companies on a three-point scale against other companies in their industry sectors. That revision left 22 percent of the companies rated ``underweight,'' the lowest ranking. But Morgan Stanley is not using the word ``sell.'' The Goldman Sachs Group announced in February that it had hired Andrew Melnick, who ran Merrill's research department during the period Spitzer is investigating. Goldman named Melnick and one of its investment bankers, Suzanne Nora Johnson, to oversee its analysts in a more independent research department that would be separated from the firm's stock sales and trading operation. But Goldman has not made any changes to its stock-rating system, and no changes are imminent, a spokesman for the firm said Wednesday. In contrast, Prudential Securities drew attention a year ago to its shift to a simple buy-hold-sell system that was the centerpiece of its promotion of the purity of its investment opinions. Of course, Prudential first shut its relatively small investment banking operation, leaving it without the potential conflicts of interest under scrutiny at bigger firms. Still, Prudential rates only about 5 percent of the companies it covers as a sell. 
