Commentary (For use by New York Times News Service clients.) By DOTTY LeMIEUX c.2002 San Francisco Chronicle SAN FRANCISCO _ The actress Hedy Lamarr, who was also a scientist and inventor, is reputed to have complained that to be considered glamorous in Hollywood, all an actress had to do was ``stand still and look stupid.'' That was in 1942. Today, an actress has to be concerned as much with maintaining as achieving that Glam look. This means looking youthful as long as possible. How does today's aspiring actress keep the dewy glow of youth? It's as simple as a prick with a needle containing just a smidgen of the botulinum bacteria, that pesky little germ most famous for lurking in bulging cans of meat products your mother used to warn you about. Now, it's de rigueur for any actress who hopes to have a career past 40. Since the FDA approved the use of Botox for cosmetic purposes last month, columnists from Ellen Goodman to William Safire have decried the pressure to look young by using a product that essentially erases all expression from the face through paralysis. Even Ellen DeGeneres spoofs the procedure in her latest comic routine. But I think they are being shortsighted. Some people might think using one of the most potent neurotoxins on the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's short-list of potential tools of bioterrorism as a cosmetic procedure is crazy. Then again, imagine the possibilities. Just think of the many advantages of being able to hide your expression without effort. (OK, it costs up to $1,000 per application, but you're worth it.) Through the use of Botox, the term ``poker face'' will take on a whole new meaning for the serious gambler. Politicians, trial attorneys and others whose livelihoods depend on a deadpan expression will be able to realize great gains over their un-Botox-enhanced fellows. Botox can also be used to stop excessive sweating. Just think what a boon this will be for bank robbers and other felons. No sweaty palms to give away your intentions before you can hand over the demand note. And 17-year-olds on their first date will no longer have to experience the embarrassment of drippy underarms. One unexpected side-effect of the Botox craze is the unavailability of actors with expressive faces. Veteran movie directors Martin Scorsese and Baz Luhrman recently were quoted as bemoaning that lack, blaming Botox for erasing all character from the pool of movie actors and actresses. This shortage may signal a boon for a new technology, one that has been perfected in the skin trade _ the virtual skin trade, that is. Until the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that simulated kiddie porn was OK, so long as there were no real children involved, no one ever knew that there was a high-tech alternative to live people on-screen. Think of it. Virtual stars able to run the gamut of emotions and contort their faces in ways no longer possible for the Botox crowd, who have to be careful not to let the treatment get away from them .'.'. literally. (Botox has a tendency to ``drift,'' causing eyelid droop, bulging alien foreheads or that look your golden retriever gets when listening for critters under the house, a quizzical one-ear-up-and-one-ear-down appearance.) Virtual actors would cost less, allowing more money for the special effects that make for box-office extravaganzas. So, it looks as if the Botox injected, silicone implanted, skin-tightened and lipo-sucked will have to look elsewhere for employment. I hear there's a growing demand for ``living mannequins'' to market the latest ``heroine chic'' line of clothing at malls everywhere. That way, they can stand still, look stupid and still bring home the bacon. As for me, I'll keep my wrinkles, smile lines and wattles. I've earned every one of them. I'm ready for my audition, Mr. Scorsese. ___ Dotty LeMieux is a lawyer, campaign consultant and occasional topical humor writer. She is ``over 50 and proud of it.'' 
