British Royal Marines preparing for a joint operation against remnants of al-Qaida and Taliban forces in eastern Afghanistan said on Tuesday they would not hand over any prisoners they take directly into U.S. custody but will turn them over initially to the Afghan government. Lt. Col. Paul Harradine, a spokesman for British troops in Afghanistan, told a news conference at the Bagram base outside Kabul that lawyers in Britain had advised the military to take such action. Another British official, speaking to The New York Times outside Afghanistan, said that Britain's interpretation of its obligations under the Geneva Conventions and international law requires that any captured person's status, as a prisoner of war must be determined by a tribunal before he or she is held in British custody or turned over to the United States. ``Under international law, every single person we arrested would have to be put before a British tribunal,'' this official said. ``Our forces in the region simply don't have enough bodies there to do that.'' So, under international law, the British turn over such captives to the interim Afghan government, but notify the U.S. military commanders to whom the British troops report, the official said. ``And the interim Afghan government hands them back to the U.S.'' if there are any the Americans want, the official added. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, confirmed that British troops in Afghanistan were handling captured Qaida and Taliban prisoners differently from their U.S. counterparts, but played down any suggestion of friction between British and U.S. authorities on the issue. In London, a spokesman for the Ministry of Defense confirmed that prisoners captured by British forces would first be turned over to the interim government in Afghanistan. But he said that the United States would subsequently be free to claim custody of any prisoners it wanted, and that the Afghan authorities would then hand those prisoners to U.S. officials. Britain's procedure did not carry any criticism, implied or otherwise, over the U.S. treatment of prisoners. ``There isn't a misunderstanding or a problem about this, because basically everyone agrees on this policy,'' he said. ``It is a legal procedure that we're following, but it doesn't prevent those prisoners that need to be passed on from being passed on to the Americans. It doesn't prevent our allies from getting the people they want.'' U.S. forces, who are currently holding about 240 prisoners at bases in Afghanistan, and another 300 at the camp in Guantanamo Bay, have refused to recognize the captives _ who come from dozens of different countries _ as prisoners of war, describing them instead as ``unlawful combatants.'' They say prisoners are treated in accordance with international conventions but they have been denied some rights that prisoners of war should be granted. Under the Geneva convention on warfare, prisoners of war should not be confined for long periods of time, should be told promptly what charges they will face, and should be repatriated once the conflict ends. The Taliban and Qaida suspects captured to date come from not only Afghanistan but over 30 other countries, including many Arab states, Russia, China, Australia, Britain and the US itself. Two Americans taken prisoner in Afghanistan, John Walker Lindh and U.S.-born Yasser Esam Hamd, have both been transferred to jails on U.S. territory. British marines have been building up a force of 1,700 men in Afghanistan to join U.S.- led coalition forces in an operation against Qaida and Taliban forces thought to be regrouping in eastern Afghanistan and across the border in Pakistan. The marines have yet to take any prisoners in this latest operation, but British soldiers have held Taliban prisoners at Bagram air base in recent months since the campaign began in Afghanistan five months ago. Some of those have been handed over into U.S. custody, either at the Kandahar airport base in southern Afghanistan or the base in Cuba. 
