Like most Woody Allen films of the past decade, there's something underwhelming and vaguely pathetic about ``Hollywood Ending.'' But his character basically works, the script has some slight satiric bite and there's some decent laughs for a change. The film was in the can even before the release of last year's ``The Curse of the Jade Scorpion,'' and it's a good thing because that frail comedy was so completely trivial it might have been his career-ender. In comparison, this quick follow-up seems like a comeback. He plays a washed-up art-house movie director who gets a second chance at the big time when his estranged ex-wife (Tea Leoni) talks her studio head fiance (Treat Williams) into hiring him to direct the $60 million remake of a '40s B-movie she's producing. But the close proximity to the woman he still loves drives him nuts, he's incapable of adjusting to the crass demands of the new Hollywood and, being a mass of neuroses, he soon comes down with a psychosomatic affliction that makes directing all but impossible. Like the detective accidentally hypnotized in ``Jade Scorpion,'' the director's problem here gradually turns the movie into a one-joke situation, and Allen the writer never milks that situation nearly as imaginatively as we might expect. As he's grown older, Allen has tended to work faster and faster, and that haste shows up here in some clumsy staging, a screenplay that has simply not been polished to a proper sheen, and redundant scenes that make the movie maybe 15 minutes longer than it needs to be. Once again, Allen opens himself up to massive criticism by romantically casting himself with an actress who could be his daughter. The truth is his film probably would have worked better with a Bette Midler, Tracey Ullman, Diane Keaton or anyone nearer his age. But while Leoni's character is the movie's weakness, her acting is a strength. She holds the screen well, her exasperation and affection for her ex is always palpable, and she's one of Allen's few leading ladies who manages to retain her personality and not descend into a mannered, psycho-babbling Annie Hall. The rest of the ensemble cast also is stronger than usual, especially Barney Cheng as a long-suffering Chinese translator, George Hamilton as a shallow studio yes-man, and director-turned-actor Mark Rydell (``Cinderella Liberty'') as Allen's mother-hen of an agent. As a satire of the dumbing-down of Hollywood, the film is fairly gentle and never hugely stinging or insightful. But it takes an effective nip here and there, and Allen's sad vision of how low the business has sunk since his '70s heyday definitely comes through. And the movie is the funniest thing he's done since 1995's ``Mighty Aphrodite.'' His persona clicks, the physical comedy amuses, and its comic vision is tantalizing enough to make us suspect the Old Master still may have at least one masterpiece in him trying to get out. HOLLYWOOD ENDING DIRECTOR: Woody Allen CAST: Woody Allen, Tea Leoni, George Hamilton RUNNING TIME: 114 minutes RATING: PG-13 for no obvious reason GRADE: B 
