ATTENTION EDITORS: This article from the NEWHOUSE NEWS SERVICE report of WEDNESDAY, MAY 1, 2002, is available as a ``separate buy.'' For information about purchasing the article, contact DEBRA WEYDERT of The New York Times Syndicate at 732-390-4480; fax, 732-390-4697; e-mail, weyded(at)nytimes.com Optional trim at 800 words By J. SCOTT ORR c.2002 Newhouse News Service WASHINGTON _ There are groups in Washington that advocate for the environment, endangered species, public health and hundreds of other causes. But who looks out for powered sugar doughnuts? A group called the Center for Consumer Freedom has taken up the cause. A self-described coalition of more than 30,000 restaurant and tavern owners is standing tall in defense of fattening food. It's motto: ``Protecting Personal Responsibility and Protecting Consumer Choice.'' The center, which has been around since 1995, sees itself on the front lines of the battle to defend the right of all Americans to gorge on artery-clogging burgers, splurge on waistline-expanding doughnuts and Ding Dongs, and guzzle liver-hardening alcohol to their stomachs' content. The group has stepped up its efforts, beginning with an advertising blitz across Washington's radio airwaves. It says it fears government meddling in Americans' diets through the imposition of ``fat taxes'' on foods ranging from fatty meats to sugary treats. No specific proposals have been presented to Congress, but the center isn't taking any chances. It plans to spend hundreds of thousands of dollars taking the ads to other cities soon. ``We are a coalition of restaurant and tavern operators allied together to fight the growing movement of food cops and public health zealots, people who want to tell you what to eat and drink and basically how to live your life,'' said Mike Burita, the center's communications director. In one of its radio ads, the center warns that a so-called fat tax on such foods as nachos, Ding Dongs and powered sugar doughnuts would ``make all you weak snack food sinners pay for your polyunsaturated transgressions. ``And who are the ones who know what you should eat? These holier-than-thou, big brother buzz-kills,'' it continues. The center has chosen as its principal targets the Center for Science in the Public Interest, which advocates healthier eating habits, and People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, which urges Americans to refrain from eating meat. ``It's basically sophomoric, know-nothing propaganda that seems to be aimed at discouraging people from paying attention to the impact of diet on health,'' said Michael Jacobson, the CSPI's executive director. ``They are trying to deny a huge body of scientific research that associates the high caloric, fat and salt content of restaurant foods with obesity, heart disease and other health problems,'' he said. Both the CSPI and PETA endorse federal taxes on fatty foods and other unhealthy comestibles, but they are concentrating their efforts at the state level, where they see better chances for success. The groups reason that states and the federal government tax alcohol and tobacco, which can have health consequences, so why not tax junk food, too? They are finding sympathetic ears in some state legislatures. In California, for example, the Legislature is considering adding a 2-cent-per-can tax on soda and other sugary drinks and devoting the $350 million it would raise to fighting childhood obesity. The consumer freedom group had called that move a declaration of war on food. Several other states already impose extra taxes on soda, which, incidentally, Americans consume at a pace of just under a gallon per person, per week. Jacobson said his group does not expect taxes in amounts that would discourage consumption. Rather, it backs plans like the one in California that would fund programs to educate consumers about the health risks associated with certain food and drink. ``We could envision taxes on butter, potato chips, whole milk, cheeses, meat and using that money to educate people about heart disease, cancer, stroke, diabetes and other illnesses,'' Jacobson said. Which is exactly why the Center for Consumer Freedom is sounding the alarm. The center argues that government should have no role in trying to steer Americans toward any particular diet, despite the proven health benefits of eating less fat. ``The growing fraternity of `food cops,' health enforcers, militant activists, meddling bureaucrats and violent radicals who think they can decide better than you `what's best for you' are not just attacking restaurants, they're attacking liberty,'' the center warns on its Web site. (OPTIONAL TRIM BEGINS) Lyle Beckwith, senior vice president with the National Association of Convenience Stores, which also opposes new taxes on food products, echoes that view. He said the issue is not about what kind of food Americans should eat. It's about personal freedom. ``People should be making their own decisions about what products they choose to consume. I don't want anyone imposing their dietary beliefs on me,'' he said. (OPTIONAL TRIM ENDS) While the center acknowledges that some foods are better for consumers than others, it argues that Americans are smart enough to practice moderation in their dietary choices. ``We're not telling people to live on powdered sugar doughnuts. What we're saying is you have the right to practice whatever diet you choose,'' Burita said. JL END ORR (J. Scott Orr can be contacted at scott.orr(at)newhouse.com) 
