Walking into Roger Roberge's dusty shop, Mooncurser Records, in the far reaches of the Bronx, is like stepping back in time. Worn and rusted instruments -- tubas, trombones, guitars, and clarinets -- hang from the ceiling in front of tall wooden shelves tightly packed with vinyl records. The newest records in the store are close to 20 years old, and range from Tito Puente to Elvis Presley. Over the last 28 years, Roberge has scavenged for 45s and 78s, and his collection has swollen to roughly 100,000 titles. With no CDs or cassettes available, one might assume the white-bearded Roberge, 81, is just trapped in the past. But because of a resurgence of interest in vinyl records sweeping New York and beyond, Roberge now seems to be on the cutting edge. ``I have more customers now than I have ever had,'' Roberge said. ``And I don't even advertise.'' Despite the struggling economy in 2001, sales of vinyl LPs and vinyl singles rose 4.5 and 14.6 percent from the previous year, respectively, while CD and cassette sales decreased, according to the Recording Industry Association of America. Though roughly 115 times more CDs are sold in America than vinyl records, the changes indicate a revival, or at least the survival, of vinyl. ``I think a big reason is nostalgia,'' said Amanda Collins, a spokeswoman for the RIAA. ``Vinyl is the classic way of getting old music.'' The cost of vinyl records depends on demand and quality. Buddy Holly's first album, ``That'll Be the Day,'' in mint condition costs roughly $500. Roberge sells his used records for half the market price, usually from $5 to $30. Kohji Maruyama, 28, a DJ, vinyl collector with 10,000 albums, and part-time record dealer, heard about Mooncurser's from a friend five years ago. He shops there for the large selection of rare music, and affordable prices. ``He has a lot of good Latin music,'' Maruyama said, standing on a stepladder, flipping through albums on the top shelves. ``It's cool because you might be able to find a hundred dollar record for $5.'' He agreed that many average music fans, not just DJs, were getting into vinyl. ``A lot of my friends started buying vinyl in the last two years. The stuff that's hot now used to be the dollar records back then: soul, jazz, Latin, Brazilian.'' Record lovers have always considered stores like Mooncurser's a treasure. In 1994, a member of the rap group Naughty By Nature came in to Roberge's shop and bought 12,000 albums, spending $40,000 and wiping out large portions of his rock and jazz sections. Rap artists and DJs are steady vinyl customers, scratching records and sampling from classic songs in their music. Other hipsters with a disdain for the mainstream, like the obsessive collectors featured in the movie ``High Fidelity,'' enjoy the wide selection of music not available on CD. Bob Aberamson is the owner of House of Oldies in Manhattan, which claims to be the largest vinyl dealer in the United States with over 750,000 records in stock. ``About 90 percent of what's ever been made is not available on CD,'' Aberamson said. ``You get a group like the Chi-Lites that made 42 albums, two of them are on CD. The other 40, we have.'' On Carmine Street in Greenwich Village, known as ``record row'' because of the abundance of such stores, new music on vinyl has also grown in popularity. Heather Heart, 30, owns Sonic Groove Records, which opened in 1991 and sells mostly new electronic and punk music on vinyl. ``We definitely have a resurgence here. There are more people coming in to buy vinyl,'' Heart said. ``But the underground has always preferred vinyl.'' She added that her customers favor the slightly worn sound, and the size, of a record. Prices for records at her store are slightly higher than for the CDs. A new vinyl import costs $21.99, a domestic $15.99. The average CD costs $13.99. Kari Laari, 21, an electronic music fan visiting from Finland, wearing a striped wool hat pulled low over his eyes, spent $98 on five techno and house albums at Sonic Groove. He wants to be a DJ and is taking advantage of New York's bounty. ``I always liked vinyl more than CDs,'' Laari said. ``People are starting to buy more vinyl in Finland. The techno scene is growing but it's still difficult to find good techno records there.'' Across the street at Vinyl Mania Records, owner Charlie Grappone caters his business to DJs and aficionados of electronic music and hip-hop. He gets upset about how major record labels misled the public about the disappearance of vinyl. ``The major labels remade all the Doors albums, all the Beatles albums, all the things that people already owned. They went and rebought them because they were told that this is better, and that vinyl is going away,'' he said. ``First of all, vinyl always sounded better, you know the analog versus digital theory, the warm versus the cold. And it never went away.'' Records remain a fraction of what's released by major labels. For example, less than 1 percent of releases from Arista Records are vinyl. However, at large chain music stores like Tower Records, more vinyl singles are becoming available. ``A lot of major labels feel like the CD singles are a waste. They think it hurts the album sales,'' said Nelson Gomez, the singles buyer at Tower Records in Greenwich Village. ``Before you could get the remixes for Mary J. Blige on CD single, now it's vinyl only. Or Kylie Minogue. In the United States, they released ``Can't Get You Out of My Head'' on vinyl only. Two years ago it would have been released as a CD single.'' But back at Mooncurser Records, Roger Roberge doesn't concern himself with new trends or profits. He sits in his wicker rocking chair and taps his foot to old salsa albums. ``Money's not the big thing for me,'' he said. Roberge, who lives alone, still goes out five nights a week to hear jazz and Latin music. But like a true vinyl fan, he remains independent. ``Over the years I've been asked to dance by women so many times. But I say I don't dance. I've never danced in my life.'' (EDITORS: There is no charge for use of this story, but please send a tearsheet to Professor Stephen D. Isaacs, Columbia News Service, Graduate School of Journalism, Columbia University, 2950 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10027.) 
