Mark Bagley is an average Cobb County guy who enjoys playing pool, lifting weights and hiking Kennesaw Mountain. He's got your typical middle-aged, middle-class worries: the mortgage, the economy and his teenage daughter _ who wants to get a piercing, for Pete's sake. What sets him apart from his suburban neighbors is that Bagley draws Ultimate Spider-Man, dollar-wise the No. 1 comic book for Marvel (at least this month), which is the No. 1 comics publisher in the country. If the comic book industry wants to move into the mainstream and appeal to middle America, they couldn't do much better than Bagley: He's as middle as they get. Wander around his brand-new fortress of solitude near Acworth, in metro Atlanta, and you will see few clues that this is the den of spandex superheroes and vile, venomous villains _ other than the web-patterned beveled glass oval in the front door. It's all oak floors and barbecue grills and a front porch right out of Mayberry. ``I get a lot of people waving at me,'' says Bagley, a compactly-muscled 44-year-old with a reddish-blond beard, as he rocks on the porch and salutes the sparse traffic passing by on the other side of his rock garden. Bagley won a contest and got hired at Marvel at age 27, drawing a variety of Marvel books. About two years ago he started drawing Ultimate Spider-Man, one of five Spider-Man titles. Self-effacing to a fault, he seems surprised by his emergence as a big horse in the Marvel stable and is stunned when he sees his artwork show up as a tattoo on a dedicated fan's arm. ``To a small, warped segment of society, I'm a celebrity,'' he says with a laugh. The ``Spider-Man'' movie was still in development when the Ultimate book was launched, but the two share great synergy: they both tell the story of Peter Parker, high school science wonk, and his transformation into the wall-crawler. The movie is incredibly faithful to the material, says Bagley. ``It was exactly the way I imagined it as a child, and I was so glad.'' Will interest in superhero movies bring readers back to the comic shops? Maybe, says Bagley. ``I don't know if comics are ever going to sell a million copies again, but who cares if they don't? As long as there are enough people out there buying comics so I get to work, then I'm happy. I'd do this for minimum wage.'' Bo Emerson writes for The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. E-mail: bemerson(at)ajc.com Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
