c.2002 New York Times News Service 	For WEDNESDAY PMs 	Here are the top news stories from The New York Times News Service for PMs of Wednesday, May 1. 	The PMs news desk, 212-556-1927, opens at 7 a.m. Eastern Time. To get story repeats before this hour call 212-621-1595 for reruns on AP DataFeatures or 214-980-8305 or 8367 for repeats on UPI DataNews. 	NYT News Service 	INTERNATIONAL _ (Moved in ``i'' category) 	MIDEAST-U.S.-SAUDI (Washington) _ More details emerge on last week's discussions in Texas between President Bush and Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Abdullah and their import for a visit to Washington next week by Israel's Prime Minister Ariel Sharon. By Patrick E. Tyler. 	NATIONAL _ GENERAL (Moved in ``a'' category) 	TERROR-AWADALLAH (Undated) _ The case against Osama Awadallah, the Jordanian student charged with lying before a federal grand jury and who was detained as a material witness in connection with the Sept. 11 attacks, was dismissed on Tuesday. By Benjamin Weiser. 	FLA-MISSING-GIRL (Miami) _ A 5-year-old girl, who should have been monitored monthly by child welfare agents, has been missing for more than 15 months, say state officials and Miami-Dade Police. By Dana Canedy. 	SD-AIDS-RISK (Huron, S.D.) _ The authorities here fear that hundreds of people may have been exposed to HIV through a web of sexual contacts after a student at a small private college is charged with infecting his girlfriend. By John W. Fountain. 	SCI-DRUG-APPROVALS (Undated) _ More than 10 percent of 548 drugs approved by the FDA between 1975 and 1999 eventually had black box label warnings because of serious adverse drug reactions and nearly 3 percent were withdrawn from the market, according to a new study whose authors suggest that drugs are being approved too quickly. By Denise Grady. 	SCI-MAKING-T-CELLS (Undated) _ Researchers say they can change skin cells into T-cells without resorting to use of stem cells; rather, they poke holes in the skin cells and put immerse them in a T-cell-friendly bath, and voila. By Andrew Pollack. 	SCI-HUBBLE-PHOTOS (Washington) _ NASA releases the first photos from the Hubble Telescope's fancy new camera, and reports how the other new components are doing. By Warren E. Leary. 	WHO-GENOME-AID (Undated) _ A World Health Organization report, published Tuesday, suggests setting aside money so developing countries can benefit from the genome medical revolution, including cheap diagnostic tests and, down the way, such thing as re-engineering mosquitoes so they can't cause malaria. By Philip J. Hilts. 	BUSINESS DAY _ (Moved in ``f'' category) 	WORLDCOM-MARKETPLACE (Undated) _ Is Bernard Ebbers' departure a prelude to a sale? What are the prospects for a deal that would rescue Worldcom? What are Worldcom's options short of a fire sale? By Andrew Ross Sorkin and Barnaby J. Feder. 	CANADA-ELECTRIC (Toronto) _ The ties that bind the United States and Canada will become a little tighter this week when the province of Ontario throws its electricity market open to competition. By Bernard Simon. 	COMMENTARY (Moved in ``k'' category) 	Op-Ed columns by Maureen Dowd and Thomas L. Friedman. 	SPORTS (Moved in ``s'' category) 	BKN-VECSEY-COLUMN (Undated) _ Sports of The Times column on Yao Ming, the big center from China who begins his long U.S. adventure on Tuesday by working out in Chicago for any number of NBA teams that would love to grab him in the upcoming NBA draft. By George Vecsey. 	RAC-DERBY (Louisville, Ky.) _ There is no overwhelming favorite in this year's Kentucky Derby; as a result, lots of people think they have a chance on Saturday and want their horse in the race. That will mean a full field of 20 horses in the starting gate, including jockeys, trainers and owners who don't have any previous Derby experience. By Joe Drape. 	ENTERTAINMENT (Moved in ``e'' category) 	GUY-THEATER-REVIEW (New York) _ ``The Guys,'' a play about a fire captain and his fallen firefighters, becomes a theatrical shrine. Reviewed by Peter Marks. 	SHAKESPEARE-EDWARD-III (Stratford-Upon-Avon, England) _ So well-known are Shakespeare's English kings, from the tragic Lear and the dithering Richard II to the evil Richard III and the heroic Henry V, that it is strange to discover an unfamiliar monarch in the Royal Shakespeare Company's first-ever production of ``Edward III.'' By Alan Riding. 	HOLLYWOOD-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``Hollywood Ending,'' a new film directed by Woody Allen; with Allen, Tea Leoni, George Hamilton, Debra Messing. Reviewed by Elvis Mitchell. 	GRIN-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``A Grin Without A Cat'': Chris Marker, director; a documentary, In English, Spanish and French, with subtitles; narration in English by Jim Broadbent, Robert Kramer, Cyril Cusack and others. Reviewed by Dave Kehr. 	UZUMAKI-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``Uzumaki'': Higuchinsky, director; in Japanese, with subtitles. Reviewed by Elvis Mitchell. 	FUTURE-BOOK-REVIEW (Undated) _ It is frequently observed, in Faulkner's words, that the past isn't dead _ it isn't even past _ but it remains equally true, as Alexander Stille points out in his fascinating but helter-skelter new book, ``The Future of the Past,'' that the past is always receding, that ``every major historical change involves, by necessity, enormous loss.'' In the next century, Stille estimates, half of the world's 6,500 languages may disappear, and monuments _ in places like Egypt _ may disappear as well. Even electronic technology, which would seem to promise ``the historian's Holy Grail of infinite memory'' and turns out to have a down side: not only is the durability of new media declining but the accelerating rate at which computer hardware and software become obsolete makes information recovery increasingly complicated and costly. Reviewed by Michiko Kakutani. 	FOOD AND DINING (Moving in ``d'' category) 	Editors, beginning with the rugged reds of Priorat, a panel of four opinionated writers from the The New York Times will debate and assess wines every other Wednesday, under the principle that four mouths are better than one. The debut of Wines of The Times: Frank J. Prial, Eric Asimov, William Grimes and Amanda Hesser: 	WINE-TIMES (Undated) _ The advent of a new fortnightly column, with reviews and ratings by a panel of Times' food and wine writers: A review of wines from the Priorat region, tucked away in the mountains west of Barcelona. Priorat is one of the world's hottest wine regions, and one of the most controversial. By Frank J. Prial. 	With 	WINE-PRIORAT (Gratallops, Spain) _ In the chalky hills of eastern Spain, Amanda Hesser visits an ancient wine region undergoing a renaissance. 	NY-THOMPSON-SANDWICH (New York) _ Gary Thompson was the chef and owner of a sophisticated and expensive French restaurant on the east side of Manhattan, Sonia Rose. Then came September 11 and with it, both a loss of business and a change of heart. Thompson closed Sonia Rose a month ago and opened a simple sandwich stand in the West Village. Alex Witchel profiles a man who aims to be the Escoffier of the $4 sandwich. By Alex Witchel. 	HIBISCUS-DRINKS (New York) _ Chilled hibiscus infusions have begun to soak street corners and garden parties alike in Spanish Harlem, Brooklyn and Queens _ hibiscus is as ubiquitous a summer drink for many transplanted cultures as iced tea is for American Southerners. By Suzanne Hamlin. 	With recipes. 	SIMPLE-COOKING (Undated) _ The column: Soft-shell crabs. By Mark Bittman. 	With recipe. 	RUSSIA-EASTER (Undated) _ As the season of Lent ends in Russia, Suzanne Hamlin reports on the delectable comestibles that mark the breaking of the fast. 	With recipes. 	MASTER-CHEF (Undated) _ The column: Grilled ceviche. By Mark Militello. 	With recipe. 	(Editors: All clients receive all budgets, but only full-service clients receive all stories. Please check your level of service to determine which stories you will receive.) 	NYT News Service 
