Editors at publications outside the United States may find the following stories from the New York Times News Service for Thursday, May 2, of particular interest: 	INTERNATIONAL 	(Will move in `i' news category) 	MIDEAST (Ramallah, West Bank) _ Developments: Yasser Arafat has apparently reached an agreement with U.S. and British officials, paving the way for his release from his compound; although it is uncertain if he will emerge on Wednesday. An aide to Arafat said the deal could not be finalized until Israel carried out a full withdrawal of its forces from around the compound and pulled out of Palestinian-ruled Ramallah. (Staff byline to come) 	AFGHAN (Khost, Afghanistan) _ Two senior Afghan commanders here said on Wednesday that they had been involved in six commando operations in the past three weeks, each involving hundreds of U.S. and British soldiers. While these large operations have netted a respectable amount of weapons and ammunition, they have not managed to kill any Qaida soldiers and have resulted in the arrest of only two suspects. By Barry Bearak. 	FRANCE-PROTESTS (Paris) _ More than 400,000 protesters _ for and against Jean-Marie Le Pen _ took to the streets Wednesday during May Day protests. By Suzanne Daley. 	BRITAIN-ELECT (Burnley, England) _ A look at the local elections here, where the far-right British National Party is looking to gain some seats on Thursday. By Sarah Lyall. 	CHINA-U.S. (Washington) _ China's vice president Hu Jintao is scheduled to meet President Bush on Wednesday. (Staff byline to come) 	WORLD-BRIEFS (Undated) _ World news in brief. 	UNITED STATES _ General 	(Will move in `a' category or as noted) 	CONGRESS-TRADE (Washington) _ Congress debates trade. By Alison Mitchell. 	TRUCKS-MEXICO (Undated) _ A group of environmental, labor and industry organizations filed suit Wednesday to block the Bush administration's plan to let Mexican trucks travel the nation's highways, saying the environmental impact of the move was not adequately addressed. By Steven Greenhouse. 	LINDBERGH-REDUX (Farmingdale, N.Y.) _ Charles Lindbergh's grandson, Erik, took off Wednesday from not-quite-the same place as his grandfather did in 1927 in an effort to recreate Charles Lindbergh's crossing of the Atlantic.  By Bruce Lambert. 	BUSINESS 	(Will move in ``f'' news category) 	GERMANY-LABOR (Frankfurt) _ Germany is facing its first wave of strikes since 1995, actions that could derail an emerging economic recovery and may hurt the re-election prospects for Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder's government. By Edmund L. Andrews. 	KOREA-HYNIX (Seoul, South Korea) _ The day after it rejected a deal with Micron Technologies to sell its memory-chip business, Hynix Semiconductor says it wants to sell everything else to pay off debt. By Don Kirk. 	SUN-RETIRE (San Francisco) _ Sun Microsystems says that Ed Zander, 55, its president and chief operating officer, will retire, the latest in a series of executive changes at the company. Scott McNealy, the chief executive, will take over Zander's duties. By Jonathan Gaither. 	WORLDCOM (Undated) _ On Worldcom's strategy for a turnaround, including daily developments. By Barnaby J. Feder. 	AUTO-SALES (Detroit) _ Automakers report their April sales, as pricing incentives begin to change. General Motors said late Tuesday that it was eliminating zero-percent financing but will increase cash rebates on a number of vehicles by $1,000. By Danny Hakim. 	CONGRESS-DOLLAR (Washington) _ Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill and a variety of economists and interest groups are scheduled to testify before the Senate Banking Committee on whether the dollar is overvalued, a question getting increased scrutiny as the United States' current account deficit hits worrisome levels. By Richard W. Stevenson. 	WORLD-BIZ-BRIEFS (Undated) _ Short items on business news from around the world. 	ENTERTAINMENT/ARTS 	(Will move in ``e'' news category or as indicated) 	NY-AUCTIONS (New York) _ On the eve of next week's important Impressionist, modern and contemporary art auctions in New York, it is startling how radically the landscape of the New York auction houses has changed. By Carol Vogel. 	JAPAN-INDIGO (Ome, Japan) _ Japan considers the artisans involved in traditional indigo production national treasures and gives a small subsidy to the indigo producers association. Today there is a growing appreciation for things natural and environmentally friendly. By Elizabeth Heilman Brooke. 	LAKE-BOOK-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``Lake Effect,'' by Richard Cohen, reviewed by Janet Maslin. 	RUG-AUCTIONS (London) _ Soon-to-be the co-owner of an 1872 brownstone, I had flown to London to bid on Oriental carpets _ as many as I could buy with $10,000 of borrowed money. From the printed estimates published in catalogs and the full-color photographs of each rug, it was evident London was the place to go for a bargain. That's what I thought. By Tracie Rozhon. 	(Will move in ``l'' category) 	FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION please contact Josephine Schmidt (international editor), e-mail jossch(at)nytimes.com; 888-346-9867 or 212-556-1927. 	MOVING LATER: 	AM-NYT-BUDGET _ The top international, U.S., political and financial stories being considered by New York Times editors. 	AM-ADD-NYT-BUDGET _ A rundown of culture, lifestyle, sports, and special section stories will move by 3:00 p.m. ET. 	AM-PAGE1-NYT-CONSIDER _ A list of stories being considered by New York Times editors for Page 1 will move at 4:30 p.m. 	AM-EARLY-FRONTPAGE-NYT _ Stories scheduled for Page 1 will be listed by 7 p.m. 	AM-FRONTPAGE-NYT _ A description of the front page layout of the first edition of The New York Times will move at 7:30 p.m. 	TECHNICAL PROBLEMS: 	Berris Anderson 	(212) 499-3337, berris(at)nytimes.com 	e-mail to pager: page-berris(at)nytimes.com 	numeric page: 1-800-759-8888 pin 1066839 	or 	Harry Brindley 	(212) 499-3304, harryb(at)nytimes.com 	e-mail to pager: harryb(at)nytimes.com 	numeric page: 1-888-710-8736 	NEW YORK TIMES PARTNERS: 	Please note that the New York Times News Service report includes news and features from The Arizona Republic, The Boston Globe, Cox News Service, The Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Hearst Newspapers, The Houston Chronicle, The Kansas City Star, The Los Angeles Daily News, The San Francisco Chronicle, The Seattle Post-Intelligencer, States News Service and the New York Times Regional Newspapers. 	(Editors: All clients receive all budgets, but only full-service clients receive all stories. Please check your level of service to determine which stories you will receive.) 
