Rent a DVD. No, not something educational. Something fun. There are only three rules: It has to be a film you really love, the DVD must include at least a mini- documentary about making the movie (lots of them do these days), and you have to pay attention to the mini-documentary. You'll learn a lot by simply watching successful people in action and hearing what obstacles they had to overcome (and, as an added bonus, you won't have to choke down 53 workplace buzzwords while you're doing it). Now that's a win-win situation. (Sorry. I couldn't help myself.) If you have trouble thinking of a movie that fits the qualifications, you can find plenty at dvdreview.com. If you're still having trouble, settle for a favorite that offers audio commentary from the director or some other authority. You'll still pick up a lot of insight. As an example, here are three lessons for managers from one of my favorite DVDs, ``Field of Dreams'': Look at all the roles. The people making ``Field of Dreams'' figured that Kevin Costner wouldn't want to be the star because he had just finished ``Bull Durham,'' another baseball movie. But the script won him over. ``I don't just choose movies because I know my role is good,'' Costner said in the documentary. ``I've said before that I choose them because I know all the parts are good. And if that's the case, then I always know that we'll attract good actors.'' ``Field of Dreams'' attracted stars like James Earl Jones, Ray Liotta, Timothy Busfield and Burt Lancaster in supporting roles because the script was so good. Their characters all had obvious depth and motivation, which attracted the actors. If you're a manager, look at all the supporting roles in your department. What is it about those roles that will attract talented people? What will keep them motivated? Don't assume that everyone is motivated by the same things you are. Maybe you crave a six-figure salary and stock options, but others might want jobs that allow them to spend more time with their families or develop skills or work with a mentor. Look at each job beneath you on the ladder, then think about the types of people you would want to fill those jobs. What's in it for them? What makes your company stand out from the competition? What makes you stand out from some other boss? When it comes to top executives, companies will think about career growth and motivation, but they won't apply the same principles to rank-and-filers. That's too bad, because frequently the answers are no-brainers: Treat workers with respect, ask them about their goals, listen to their concerns and ideas, praise them for good work. Do those four things and you're better than 90 percent of the bosses out there. Despite what some consultants would have you believe, it ain't rocket science. Take Starbucks. Rank-and-filers there can't telecommute or show up at work at whatever time they feel like, and people won't exactly get rich off their salaries. But they do get stock options and medical coverage, which lets Starbucks attract better workers than a lot of fast-food places. Sometimes management even listens to their ideas; Frappuccino got its start at a Southern California Starbucks _ not at corporate headquarters. Many companies that pay rank-and-filers $40,000 or $50,000 a year still act as if all great ideas have to come from the top, not from the people who actually deal with customers. Appreciate how insecure people are. Phil Alden Robinson, the writer and director of ``Field of Dreams,'' described what happened when he screened the nearly finished film for James Horner, who was deciding whether to write the musical score. ``When the lights came up, he got up and left the room,'' Robinson recalled. ``And I thought, `Oh, my God. It's so bad he can't even say, ``It's interesting, but _ you know what, fellas? _ I'm too busy to do it.''' He just left the room.'' Here was a movie that Robinson had worked on for years. Several actors and other talented people obviously liked the script, but he still felt very vulnerable as he showed it to someone who wasn't one of his employees. And the guy just gets up and walks out. But Horner wasn't being rude _ just touched. The movie had brought him to tears, and he needed a couple of minutes before he could talk. Eventually, though, he managed to compose himself _ and the musical score. Too many managers point out weaknesses instead of successes. When workers extend themselves by making suggestions or putting in extra effort, responding with silence is one of the most harmful actions a manager can take. People who take risks are making themselves vulnerable. If you treat that with a yawn, you increase their insecurity and waste a wonderful opportunity. But if you use those moments to encourage people, they will know that the extra effort was appreciated and will be a lot more willing to keep at it. Appreciate unconventional strategies. ``Field of Dreams'' was a hit in the United States, of course, but it also did well in Japan, another nation that loves baseball. Still, Robinson was aghast when someone translated one of the Japanese ``Field of Dreams'' posters for him. The poster revealed exactly how the movie ended. People explained to him how important the ideas of honoring the family and honoring ancestors are in Japan, and that advertising the movie in that way helped it to attract viewers _ shocking though it might have been to his Western sensibilities. Sometimes companies let their bureaucracies kill too many unconventional ideas. If one executive objects to a proposal, it is often dumped without further consideration. If your company is always crying out for fresh ideas, make sure you're not rejecting the ideas before they have a chance to grow. It may be that time is the only difference between a field of manure and a field of dreams. Dave Murphy edits the career section of the San Francisco Chronicle. Contact him at (415) 777-8705 or dmurphy(AT)sfchronicle.com. 
