Gayle Kirschenbaum is obsessed with her dog. And, like many pet owners, she is convinced that her fellow humans delight in hearing endless stories about Chelsea, a 13-pound black and white Shih Tzu that she calls her ``dog-ter.'' But unlike other pet owners, Kirschenbaum, a freelance television producer and Emmy-Award-winning documentary filmmaker, has the dangerous ability to foist her dog tales onto a wider audience. Yes, Kirschenbaum is turning her pet's life into a movie. ``Did you ever see a girl like that?'' she asked as she pulled a pink and white visor onto Chelsea's head and fastened a faux-jeweled collar around her neck. ``This is a star.'' Last March, Kirschenbaum began shooting a documentary film that chronicles her adventures with Chelsea as the two wander about New York City. Kirschenbaum describes the movie, titled ``A Dog's Life: A Dogamentary,'' as ``Best in Show'' meets ``Sex and the City.'' Her goal is to submit the film to the 2003 Sundance Film Festival, where she hopes it will attract enough attention to get Chelsea her own television series. ``I used to joke that we were going to be the next Dorothy and Toto, but they were only in the one movie,'' Kirschenbaum said. ``I want her to be branded.'' Kirschenbaum, who in her spare time is working on a documentary about the parole system that has been commissioned by HBO, spends most of her days trying to make Chelsea a superstar. With the help of a volunteer production crew, Kirschenbaum and Chelsea have shot more than 50 hours of film. Her studio apartment in Greenwich Village doubles as an editing suite and Web site production office (www.dogamentary.com). Kirschenbaum also sought out the advice of Albert Maysles, the documentary filmmaker and legend of cinema verite. Maysles was intrigued by the concept of capturing the relationship between humans and animals. He has shot several scenes and also appears in the film. ``This whole thing is so experimental,'' Maysles said while on location with Chelsea in April. ``The general population is more interested in dogs than almost anything _ dogs and horses.'' Kirschenbaum _ who said she was in her 40s but declined to give Chelsea's age because of age discrimination in Hollywood _ began her television career in Los Angeles, where she worked as a documentary filmmaker at PBS. In 1989, she won a regional Emmy for ``Doumeni House,'' a short film about a house designed by artists. She worked on documentaries that were broadcast on several cable stations including the A&AMP;E Network and she produced episodes for television programs like ``America's Most Wanted.'' In 1995, Kirschenbaum met Chelsea, who was living with Kirschenbaum's brother and his family in Orlando, Fla. The family had two Shih Tzus, two Akitas and a new baby. Kirschenbaum decided to take Chelsea home with her. As Kirschenbaum grew increasingly frustrated with her professional work, she drew inspiration from her relationship with Chelsea. Eventually, she decided it was time to share their story with the world. First, Kirschenbaum said she and Chelsea wrote a book together, ``Chelsea's Rescue: Tales of a Dog-ter and Her Mommy.'' (It was never published.) She tried to get Chelsea placed in feature films. (Movie studios never came calling.) When the two moved to New York City in the fall of 2000, Kirschenbaum decided she and Chelsea had entered the perfect television set. So she dreamed up a half-hour television series about their life called ``Dogs and the City.'' (Ring any bells?) But what started as a trailer for Chelsea's television series quickly turned into something more. ``I just kept getting more and more footage,'' Kirschenbaum said, ``and really interesting funny things starting happening and I realized this is going to be a film.'' Because Chelsea was walking the street with a camera crew filming every wag of her tail, scores of people felt obliged to engage the dog in conversation. One woman even divulged that she felt her dog was her husband reincarnated since neither would eat eggs. Flush with ideas, but not cash, Kirschenbaum found volunteer production help on the Internet. Her 12 assistants range from sound technicians to a grant writer who Kirschenbaum hopes can help her obtain the $85,000 she needs to hire an editor to finish the film. She is also seeking commercial sponsors and donations from the public. (For $10,000, Chelsea will appear with a sponsor's product in the documentary. A gift of $1,000 buys a listing in the film's credits.) In the early days of shooting, Chelsea and the camera crew attracted so much attention around the city that Kirschenbaum asked one of her friends to create a spy camera so that people could see the world from Chelsea's perspective. The doggy camera, which weighs about three ounces, is attached to Chelsea's back. ``With the dog, something weird always happened,'' said Aline Motta, 27, a film student at the New School who supervised the spy camera. ``People would always engage in some weird conversation like `I think that my dog is, like, my father reincarnated.''' And then came Sept. 11. ``It's like we found meaning in life,'' said Kirschenbaum, who, of course, believes Chelsea has the power to soothe and heal. ``It wasn't so much that we were going up for the Hollywood contract as much as `we have to go help.''' Within a month of the attack, Chelsea became a certified therapy dog serving victims' families at Chelsea Piers. Chelsea and Kirschenbaum also volunteer at Cabrini Hospice and at St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital, where Chelsea even has her own identification badge. Her role as a therapy dog has become a part of the script. In April, a film crew _ Maysles was the lead cameraman _ followed Chelsea and Kirschenbaum at Cabrini. The patients said they enjoyed visits from Chelsea, but they gave mixed reviews about her potential as a Hollywood luminary. ``Really, these film animals, they have to do something,'' said John Riccobono, 86. ``But she doesn't do anything like those movie dogs. Like that mutt that's on `Frasier' _ he does something.'' Kirschenbaum is not daunted by that kind of talk. She says naysayers don't know Chelsea. But others felt the magic. ``She should be a star,'' said Glyn Eppy, who took a break from visiting her mother to rub Chelsea's back. ``She's cuter than Benji, and he was a star.'' 
