The Bush administration dropped its backing for a U.N. fact-finding mission into Israel's actions in the Jenin refugee camp because the issue became a distraction from progress toward peace after Israel and the United Nations could not come to terms, senior administration officials said on Thursday. Secretary of State Colin Powell spoke to Secretary-General Kofi Annan five times on Tuesday and twice on Wednesday in a last-minute effort to salvage the mission, officials said. But diplomats said Israeli military officials flatly refused any inquiry that would subject Israeli troops and commanders to questioning. That led to a turnabout that amounted to an embarrassment for both Annan and the Bush administration, which had faced repeated questioning from some allies about why it has not pressured Israel harder in recent months. The administration and the United Nations had supported a fact-finding mission in the first place only after Israel's foreign minister, Shimon Peres, said his country would welcome one to dispel Palestinian accusations of a massacre in the camp. Then a divided Israeli government, in which Peres' Labor party does not play the major part, kept raising objections, and both Annan and the administration backed down. ``It just wasn't a die-on-your-sword issue for us,'' one senior administration official said, describing the chain of diplomatic wrangling and political realities that led to the abandonment of support for the mission to the West Bank. President Bush has faced twin pressures, from Congress to support Israel and from European and Arab allies to make progress in resolving Middle East violence. Administration officials made it clear that he considered Israel's acceptance of a U.S.-brokered deal to release Yasser Arafat from confinement in his Ramallah compound a more important development toward restarting peace talks than action on Jenin. Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel announced acceptance of that deal on Sunday, even as he rejected the U.N. mission. ``If you're going to die on a particular hill, don't die on Jenin,'' one senior U.S. official said. ``Die on something that's important to moving forward, and that's Ramallah and Bethlehem,'' where a tense armed standoff between Palestinians and Israelis at the Church of the Nativity has dragged on for weeks. Both Israeli and U.S. officials denied any quid pro quo linking the decisions on Ramallah and the Jenin mission, but both sides acknowledged that the other was aware of the implicit connection. In fact, they said, Bush had not mentioned Jenin in his telephone call to Sharon on Saturday when he proposed that Israel release Arafat in exchange for having British and U.N. wardens oversee six Palestinian prisoners wanted by Israel and held in Arafat's compound. ``It's never that overt,'' one Israeli official said. On Sunday, as the Israeli cabinet debated the proposal on Ramallah, Sharon's foreign policy adviser, Danny Ayalon, telephoned his White House counterpart, Condoleezza Rice, to report that the cabinet was divided and might not accept the deal, officials said. They said Rice responded by saying how important the Ramallah proposal was to the president and by inviting Sharon to the White House next week. Several officials also said that it had become clearer in recent days, as human rights groups, diplomats and journalists visited the camp, that while Palestinian civilians had surely died _ and even that Israel might have violated international law by denying access to humanitarian groups _ there was no longer any credible suggestion of mass killings. ``No one believes there was a massacre anymore,'' one Israeli official said. (BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) In fact, considerable international concern about Israel's refusal remains. The Security Council continued to wrangle on Thursday in the aftermath of Annan's decision to abandon the mission, with various draft resolutions and a letter to Annan in circulation, at least one of them deploring Israel's refusal to cooperate. Still, there has been no agreement. After a meeting here on the Middle East with Secretary Powell and Russian and European officials, Annan said he expected the United Nations might yet prepare a report on Jenin, ``even if you cannot get on the ground.'' The president of the European Commission, Romano Prodi, in Washington for a meeting in the White House with European Union officials, expressed sharp regret that Israel had not allowed the fact-finding mission to proceed. ``My opinion about it is very severe,'' Prodi, the former prime minister of Italy, said in an interview with The New York Times. ``Because it will be a shadow for the future. It's been a political mistake.'' Asked if the United States had done all it could to make the mission happen, he replied: ``I don't know. Probably.'' (END OPTIONAL TRIM) Senior administration officials said they remained concerned about getting humanitarian and emergency assistance to Palestinians in Jenin and elsewhere, and they hoped that comprehensive reports by independent groups and international organizations would yet be completed. ``Do we think it's still important to have the facts come out, instead of stories?'' one official asked. ``Yes. Are they coming out? Somewhat.'' On Thursday, Human Rights Watch issued a report based on a weeklong mission in the Jenin camp that it said suggested Palestinian claims of hundreds of deaths were exaggerated. The inquiry, however, did cite interviews backing claims that the Israeli army demolished more houses than warranted and used Palestinian civilians to cover military movements through the camp. ``But,'' the administration official added, ``wouldn't it be better to have an impartial U.N. report?'' 
