Another week, another crop of bad news from the telecom industry. Bernie Ebbers, the chief executive of WorldCom, was forced out. The share price of Qwest, another heavily indebted American telecom company, fell to an all-time low, after it announced a first-quarter loss of $698 million. Siemens, a German company, said that it would cut 6,500 jobs in its telecom-infrastructure division, on top of 10,000 layoffs already announced. Marconi and JDS Uniphase, two other network-equipment vendors, announced or gave warning of gloomy results. Even as the broader economic climate begins to improve, the carnage in telecom continues. ``No bottom in sight,'' is how Nikos Theodosopoulos, an analyst at UBS Warburg, puts it. Theodosopoulos notes that, historically, the telecom sector tends to recover six months later than the economy as a whole. But this time, he says, there is evidence of bigger structural problems in the industry that will not be solved by an economic recovery. He believes that the industry must undergo painful rationalization before things start to improve. How did this happen? Telecom is an infrastructure-intensive business, and infrastructure takes a long time to build. So telecom firms have to gamble on the level of future demand. In recent years, however, their bets _ in both fixed and mobile telecom _ have gone spectacularly wrong. In fixed-line telecom, the problem is overcapacity. During the Internet boom, operators assumed that demand would continue to grow by 100 percent a year indefinitely. A vast construction program ensued, fueled by cheap capital. At its height, according to Andrew Heaney of the consultancy firm Spectrum, telecom operators built seven years' worth of capacity in a single year. The result was a capacity glut, ferocious competition and frantic price-cutting. Traffic growth has not translated into extra revenue. Fixed-line operators have now cut their infrastructure spending to focus on picking up clients rather than expanding their networks. All of this is terrible news for equipment vendors. Two of the biggest, Nortel and Lucent, have cut around 50,000 jobs apiece in the past year or so. Bankruptcies and mergers would appear to be the solution, but bankruptcies do little to solve the problem of overcapacity. When a steel firm goes bust its mills can be knocked down, but when a telecom firm goes under its network remains in the ground, so the capacity doesn't go away. Mergers, meanwhile, are unattractive in the current climate, in which the industry's woes discourage most buyers. Mergers are also problematic for regulatory reasons: WorldCom's 2000 attempt to merge with Sprint, a long-distance operator, was rejected as anticompetitive, since it would have created a giant with huge market power. Both that argument and America's rules preventing local operators from merging with long-distance operators look harder to justify, given today's turmoil and the rapid pace of technological change. Conceivably broadband Internet connections might someday generate the traffic needed to fill operators' empty pipes. But broadband has been slow to take off for a variety of reasons, so it would be foolish to expect it to make much difference any time soon. Operators of mobile networks also made what has turned out to be an ill-judged bet on future demand. With voice revenues stabilizing, the industry hoped that new data services, piped over high-tech ``third generation'' networks, would provide growth. But consumers in most parts of the world have been far slower to embrace new data services than the operators had hoped. Worse, European operators hobbled themselves with huge debts by overpaying for 3G licenses. Investors now worry that mobile telecom is merely a low-growth utility, rather than an industry on the verge of a new phase of explosive expansion. The uncertainty has had a chilling effect on wireless-infrastructure vendors, who were banking on selling vast amounts of 3G equipment. Ericsson and Motorola, for example, are each laying off more than 40,000 workers. Once again, consolidation might help to sort out the mess. Arguably, having dozens of mobile operators in Europe makes no more sense than having dozens of car makers. But consolidation is held back by regulation: As things stand, if a 3G operator folds or merges with a rival, it must give up its license. European governments, however, are expected to change the rules soon to enable licenses to be bought and sold. That will cause further pain, as the market determines how little these expensive rights are really worth. But it should also help to dispel some of the continuing uncertainty around 3G. In short, even though Internet traffic continues to grow and mobile phones remain popular, telecom firms have already bet everything on a surge in demand that has so far failed to materialize. Backing out of these bets is proving to be very unpleasant. The carnage will continue for some time yet. 
