The US Customs Service, acknowledging that it needs to increase its ability to detect radioactive material that is shipped to the United States, says that it is doubling its capacity to screen incoming packages. Customs does not currently screen all incoming packages for radiation, and while importers of radioactive materials are required to be licensed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, no government agency currently verifies that requirement, according to a letter US Customs Commissioner Robert C. Bonner sent to Representative Edward J. Markey, a Malden Democrat. At a time when national security concerns are focused on the potential for terrorists to use radioactive materials as weapons, Markey said the package carriers like UPS and FedEx could still be used as a ``back-door'' in the nation's security system through which illicit radioactive materials could enter the country. He called for cpmplete screening of incoming packages. Since Sept. 11, the possibility of a radiological, or ``dirty,'' bomb or even a improvised nuclear device has been a chief national security concern. These fears have only been increased by Al Qaeda documents discovered in Afghanistan and other intelligence illustrating terrorist attempts to obtain radioactive material. ``Al Qaeda will use the simplest means to transfer the materials which can cause the maximum harm to America,'' said Markey, a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. ``Customs is moving to increase security, but the larger message is we need to be better prepared and there's a lot of work that needs to be done.'' Bonner said that his agency is in the process of purchasing 3,400 personal radiation detectors, pager-sized scanners that clip to a person's belt. They will not all be in place until the end of this calendar year, however. That amount would roughly double the number currently employed, according to Customs spokesman Dean Boyd. ``It is our goal to screen as many and as much people and cargo and conveyances as we can coming into the country for radiation, but certainly we'll need additional technology and we'll do that,'' Boyd said. ``It is also imperative that search in an intelligent manner and we get information in advance on the type of goods coming into the country so we can make informed decisions to focus on the most-high risk.'' Currently, Customs essentially profiles incoming packages to determine which to single out for screening. ``While there is a need for additional radiological detection equipment, Customs does screen and target shipments for heightened scrutiny based on anomalies in the entry data, prior compliance violations, lookouts in our computer systems and other indicators of suspicion,'' Bonner wrote Markey. Boyd also pointed out that Customs has provided their foreign counterparts with the personal radiation detectors and trained them to use the devices. These have resulted, he said, in radioactive material crossing borders foreign borders. In May of 1999, for example, Bulgarian border security stopped a 35-year old Turkish man who was trying to smuggle 10 grams of weapons-grade uranium from Turkey to Moldova. And while there is currently no procedure to verify that importers of radioactive material are licensed, Bonner said that Customs is currently working with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to set up a system to do so. Bonner's letter came in response to a January letter from Markey, which was prompted by an incident where a package shipped via Federal Express from Paris to Louisiana arrived leaking dangerous amounts of radiation. While that transaction turned out to be legitimate, it raised concerns about the United States' ability to screen for radioactive materiel. ``For the same reason that the American public wants all bags checked going onto planes, they have a right to expect that all UPS and FedEx packages flown into the US are being checked,'' Markey said. ``If there is a back-door way around American security, then the UPS and FedEx planes would be that back door.'' Robert Schlesinger can be reached by email at schlesinger(at)globe.com 
