You may cry when you read the new book ``Sarah Brady: A Good Fight.'' She is the wife of James Brady, the former White House press secretary who suffered many illnesses after surviving a gunshot wound to the head during the attempted assassination of Ronald Reagan on March 30, 1981. Sarah Brady, now battling lung cancer, opens her poignant memoir by writing, ``As I begin this story, I am fighting for my life.'' But at one point she notes that her nemesis, the National Rifle Association, can attest to the fact that she is a longtime fighter for gun control. Then she adds, ``Point me at a problem, tell me what needs to be done, and I'll give it everything. I love a good fight.'' What struck me in reading the book was her incredible courage through the many crises the Brady family has faced in the last two decades. ``Meanwhile,'' she says of her own illness, ``I am taking life one day at a time. I'm trying to pay closer attention to everything around me, to enjoy, fully, the people and things I love most, to appreciate as much as I possibly can.'' She adds, ``I love life and I do not want to leave any of this behind. But I am not some kind of Pollyanna nut. I am trying to keep a healthy balance between being realistic, on the one hand, and living without self-pity and constant worry, on the other.'' If the Bradys have anything, it is the will to overcome adversities. Jim Brady himself has gone through critical brain operations, grand-mal seizures, falls and paralysis on his left side affecting his ability to walk. The two have miraculously survived each setback despite the trauma and disappointments. Despite everything, they have not lost their sense of humor or their acute ability to size up people. Sarah writes about attending the Republican National Convention in Dallas in 1984 and meeting actor Charlton Heston, who was to later become her chief adversary as head of the NRA. ``He struck me _ I remember it vividly _ as a pompous ass,'' she said. ``He was raised somewhere in the Middle West, and I know he didn't grow up speaking in that forced, theatrical way. He sounded very phony to me.'' In contrast, she says that at the same convention she realized ``what a decent and wonderful person Ronald Reagan himself was.'' He was ``such a personable man, always amusing.'' Remarkably, her crusade against guns did not stem from the shots fired by John Hinckley, who was found not guilty by reason of insanity in June 1982 and confined ever since to a mental hospital. What triggered her gun-control commitment was an incident that occurred in 1985 when she and her son Scott, then six years old, were visiting friends in Centralia, Ill., Jim Brady's home town. Sarah and her son were taken on an outing in a pickup truck. She says that ``Scott picked up off the seat what looked like a toy gun and started waving it around.'' Taking it from him, she realized it was not a toy, but a ``fully loaded, little Saturday night special, very much like the one that had shot Jim.'' She recalls being so outraged that she left Centralia earlier than planned. After she returned home to Arlington, Va., she heard a broadcast saying that the National Rifle Association was pushing a bill to repeal the 1968 gun control law, which required people to be 18 years old to purchase a long gun and 21 to buy a hand gun. Although it was a weak bill with no real means of enforcement, she recalls thinking that it was ``a sensible gun law, hardly an abrogation of anyone's rights. Yet here was the NRA, pushing this bill to rescind it.'' She picked up the phone, called the NRA national headquarters and said: ``My name is Sarah Brady, and you never heard of me, but I'm going to make it my life's ambition to try to put you all out of business.'' The next day she joined forces with Handgun Control Inc., which had been operating since 1974. Sarah Brady hasn't put the formidable NRA lobbyists out of business, but she has given them a lot of headaches. After years of lobbying by both Bradys, President Bill Clinton signed a measure named for Jim into law on Nov. 30, 1993. It went into effect in 1994 and required a five-day waiting period before a would-be purchaser could receive a gun. That allowed federally licensed firearm dealers to check with police on the potential buyer's background. The provision expired in 1998 and was replaced by one setting up a system of instant criminal background checks. Sarah says the Brady bill could have become law in 1991 if it had not been for the reluctance of former President George H. W. Bush. Although both Bradys were Republicans, she writes that she knew they were going to have to take a stand in the 1992 election, and ``it was not going to be in favor of George Herbert Walker Bush.'' She is often asked how she has had the courage to get through the hard times, and she replies, ``I don't consider it courage to do something you have to do. That's simply a matter of accepting responsibility and moving ahead.'' She says her family has been blessed with ``the most extraordinary support system of family and friends'' and she adds, ``On the whole, I consider myself incredibly lucky.'' 
