ATLANTA _ ``A Beautiful Mind'' A- Starring Russell Crowe, Jennifer Connelly and Ed Harris. Rated PG-13 (disturbing scenes of mental illness). Review: A beautiful movie. But to tell you how good it really is would spoil it for you. Russell Crowe gives an astonishing performance as John Nash Jr., a brilliant mathematician who suffers from severe schizophrenia. Though there is a lot of exterior drama _ a shadowy CIA agent (Ed Harris), a long-suffering but loyal wife (Jennifer Connelly) _ this is essentially a movie about an extraordinary mind playing life-and-death mind games with its unquiet self. Ron Howard is back in ``Apollo 13'' form. This is what an inspirational movie should be. (ERG) 2 hours, 9 minutes. ``The Cat's Meow'' B Starring Edward Herrmann and Kirsten Dunst. Rated PG (mild violence, sexual situations) Review: The title is a raffish Roaring '20s way of saying something's very cool, and though Peter Bogdanovich's movie isn't that cool, it's certainly cool enough. The director recounts the rumor/story of a murder that may have happened aboard zillionaire media mogul William Randolph Hearst's yacht on a November weekend in 1924. His guests included movie star Marion Davies (Kirsten Dunst), who was also Hearst's devoted mistress; Charlie Chaplin (Eddie Izzard), obsessed with trying to seduce Davies; future gossip columnist Louella Parsons (Jennifer Tilly); formerly famous director Thomas Ince (Cary Elwes); and wasp-tongued British journalist Elinor Glynn (Joanna Lumley). The movie scatters as the story moves from one art deco corridor to the next, but it never loses sight of its poignant center _ the odd yet enduring relationship between Hearst and Davies. Go for Dunst alone, who's never been this good in a career full of good performances. (ERG) 1 hour, 52 minutes. ``Changing Lanes'' B Starring Ben Affleck and Samuel L. Jackson. Rated R (language, mild violence) Review: A pretty darn good movie with two very darn good stars. What happens when two guys have a bad day on the same day? That's the plot, more or less, of this sturdy action drama about a high-end lawyer (Ben Affleck) and a low-end insurance agent (Samuel L. Jackson) who collide on the FDR in Manhattan. The ads suggest a revenge movie, and there is some of that, but mostly this is a film that asks questions about conscience and accountability. (ERG) 1 hour, 41 minutes. ``The Endurance: Shackleton's Legendary Antarctic Expedition'' B+ A documentary directed by George Butler. Rated G. Review: A remarkable and absolutely fascinating documentary about a miracle of sorts. In 1914, Irish-born explorer Ernest Shackleton and his 27-man crew took off for Antarctica determined to become the first to cross the continent on foot. But one day from making land, their ship, the Endurance, became trapped in ice. Hardship followed hardship, but Shackleton was determined not to lose a single life. This extraordinary story of resilience, courage, determination and, perhaps, fate is partly told by original footage and photos taken on the expedition by crew member Frank Hurley. The rest is filled with excerpts from letters home and personal journals, ships' logs and interviews with descendants. It's an astonishing chronicle of survival against all odds. (ERG) 1 hour, 32 minutes. ``E.T. The Extra-Terrestrial: The 20th Anniversary'' A- Starring Henry Thomas, Drew Barrymore and E.T. Directed by Steven Spielberg. Rated PG (mild violence) Review: For the most part, this rerelease of Steven Spielberg's enchanting Space Age fairy tale about an odd little alien stranded on Earth and befriended by a lonely boy is the same as it ever was. And that's a good thing. A few bits have been added, a few bits changed, and the print has been given the usual high-tech makeover. But the real reason to see this in the theater after seeing it at home dozens of times is to see it in a theater. On a big screen, where Henry Thomas and Drew Barrymore and Spielberg and, of course, E.T. can work their movie magic. (ERG) 2 hours. ``Frailty'' B+ Starring Bill Paxton and Matthew McConaughey. Rated R (violence) Review: Imagine ``The Texas Chainsaw Massacre'' from Leatherface's point of view and you'll have some idea of what this smart, creepy exercise in Southern gothic is like. Most of the story is told in flashback, taking us to a tiny Texas town in 1979 where Fenton and Adam Meiks live with their dad (Bill Paxton). Everything's normal until the night Dad tells them God has spoken to him and wants the Meiks family to slay demons walking the earth in human form. Directed by Paxton in a spare, unshowy manner and evoking the unadorned grisliness of some 1970s splatter classics, the movie sags a bit in the middle. But there's a final twist that's almost as good as the one in ``The Sixth Sense.'' (ERG) 1 hour, 40 minutes. ``High Crimes'' B- Starring Ashley Judd and Morgan Freeman. Rated PG-13 (violence, language, sexual aspects) Review: This courtroom thriller is more good than great, but Morgan Freeman and Ashley Judd make it worth checking out. A hot-shot lawyer (Judd) has her world upended when her husband (Jim Caviezel) is put under military arrest and charged with committing a My Lai-style massacre in El Salvador years earlier. Judd decides to defend him, but she needs someone who knows the ropes in a military trial. That would be Freeman, a laid-back loser with a drinking problem. Director Carl Franklin focuses on his characters instead of the standard-issue plot (though there are some surprises). (ERG) 1 hour, 55 minutes. ``Hollywood Ending'' C- Starring Woody Allen, Tea Leoni and Treat Williams. Rated PG-13(sexuality). Review: Starts well, then goes south. The director-star plays Val, an Oscar-winning director, now washed up. His ex-wife (Tea Leoni) persuades her fiance, a powerful studio head (Treat Williams), to hire him for his next project. Things fall apart. While there are some vintage Woody one-liners and those classic love-letter shots of Manhattan, much of the movie is stale and oddly dated. (The jokes about Val's estranged son's nipple rings seem 10 years old at least.) The picture isn't junk but it isn't the Woody we once knew. (ERG) 1 hour, 54 minutes. ``Life or Something Like It'' B- Starring Angelina Jolie and Edward Burns. Rated PG-13 (language, mild violence, sexual situations). Review: As an ambitious platinum blond TV reporter named Lanie Kerrigan, Angelina Jolie looks more cartoonish than she ever did in ``Lara Croft: Tomb Raider.'' Lanie has the perfect life until a street-corner psychic predicts she's going to die in a week. The movie suffers from a split personality. The good part is the clever romantic comedy suggested by the ads. But then there's the bad part _ a kind of glorified TV-movie weepie where Lanie learns to be a better human being. (ERG) 1 hour, 44 minutes. ``Monsoon Wedding'' B+ Starring Naseeruddin Shah and Vijay Raaz. Rated R (language, adult themes). Review: R.S.V.P. to this wedding. An extended-family gathering for a lavish Punjabi wedding in New Delhi provides an exuberant _ and sometimes emotional _ illustration of the clash between Indian tradition and Western modernization. Combining hand-held-camera intimacy with the colorful song-and-dance conventions of a mass-appeal Bollywood movie, director Mira Nair lets the film find its footing at its own pace. (ERG) 1 hour, 54 minutes. ``Panic Room'' C Starring Jodie Foster and Forest Whitaker. Rated R (violence, language). Review: It's ``Wait Until Dark'' for dummies. Or ``Home Alone'' without the laughs. A divorcee (Jodie Foster) and her teenage daughter (Kristen Stewart) retreat into a panic room _ it's the state-of-the-art last thing in security systems _ when three thieves invade their brownstone. What they don't know is the fortune the men are seeking is stashed in their hiding place. Director David Fincher (``Fight Club'') is more interested in gliding his camera over expensive kitchen counters or down polished stair rails than in mundane stuff like character or dialogue. Foster brings her usual intelligence and precision to her role, but the movie suffers from a bad case of TMS _ Too Much Stupidity. (ERG) 1 hour, 42 minutes. ``Triumph of Love'' C Starring Mira Sorvino and Ben Kingsley. Rated PG (sexual situations). Review: The real triumph is Mira Sorvino, who gives the best performance of her career as an 18th-century princess forced to disguise herself as a man, then as a woman pretending to be a man. It all has to do with her falling for the comely prince, the rightful heir to the throne her family usurped. To get to him, she must seduce his austere, repressed guardians (Ben Kingsley and Fiona Shaw). Based on a 1732 play by Pierre Marivaux, the picture is intricate and often lively. But it sputters and wheezes as it nears the end, when the playwright's fondness for superficiality and artificiality proves too much of a burden. Still, Sorvino is really wonderful, and Kingsley and Shaw are masters of this kind of high comedy. (ERG) 1 hour, 47 minutes. ``The Scorpion King'' C+ Starring the Rock (Dwayne Johnson) and Michael Clarke Duncan. Rated PG-13 (intense scenes of action violence, some sensuality). Review: For all the money spent on this ``Mummy'' offshoot _ roughly $60 million _ the movie lacks bite. What you get in ``The Scorpion King'' is just brute force. Rated PG-13 and spiced with glimpses of female skin, there are more bruising brawls with clanging swords, zipping arrows and sledgehammer fists than anybody can count. There's an enticing sorceress. A back-to-the-future wacky scientist. Electric guitars from time to time on the soundtrack. And plenty of overblown lines, like this one: ``Rivers of blood can never bring peace.'' (BL) 1 hour, 28 minutes. ``Spider-Man'' B+ Starring Tobey Maguire, Kirsten Dunst and Willem Dafoe. Rated PG-13 (comic book violence). Review: What a comic-book movie should be. Director Sam Raimi, a Spidey fan since he was a kid, brings both a true believer's devotion and his considerable directorial flair to this terrific version of the Marvel Comics superhero. When shy teen-geek Peter Parker (Tobey Maguire) is bitten by a genetically mutated spider, he gains arachnoid-like super powers (scaling walls, flinging webs, etc.) and devotes his life to fighting crime in Manhattan. Willem Dafoe (as Spidey's nemesis the Green Goblin) and Kirsten Dunst (as Spidey's love interest) bring more acting talent than you usually see in this kind of flick, but the real superhero is Maguire, who's flat-out perfect in his dual role. (ERG) 2 hours. ``Y Tu Mama Tambien'' A- Starring Maribel Verdu, Gael Garcia Bernal and Diego Luna. Not rated, but there is nudity, language and explicit sex. In Spanish with subtitles. Review: A wondrous movie about life, death and the whole darn thing. Oh, and sex, too. Lots of sex. With their girlfriends gone for the summer, two boisterous Mexican teens (Gael Garcia Bernal and Diego Luna) invite a 28-year-old ``old``````er'' woman (Maribel Verdu) on a trip to a beautiful hidden beach. Along the way, they learn a lot about life _ and each other. Part ``Jules and Jim,'' part ``American Pie,'' the movie offers a perceptive coming-of-age story, a loony road trip, some scathing political observations, even a melancholy twinge of fate. (ERG) 1 hour, 45 minutes. Eleanor Ringel Gillespie and Bob Longino write for The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. You may contact them at: eringel(at)ajc.com blongino(at)ajc.com Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
