The State Department reported on Wednesday that Colombia is making progress in deterring human rights crimes by the armed forces and right-wing paramilitary groups, clearing the way for the release of $62 million in American military aid. The certification drew immediate criticism from human rights groups and was met with some skepticism in Congress. Lawmakers had established the procedure to curb abuses against civilians in Colombia, which is the third largest recipient of American aid. Secretary of State Colin Powell determined that the Colombian armed forces are suspending and prosecuting military officers implicated in human rights crimes, breaking links with paramilitary groups and capturing their leaders, his spokesman said. Powell's decision frees up the first portion of a $104 million military aid package this year. Congress has required a second certification sometime after June 1 to release the remaining funds. The move came as no surprise from an administration that has increasingly warned of the dangers posed to Colombia by narcotics traffickers and their ``terrorist'' allies on both the political left and right. Richard Boucher, the State Department spokesman, said the vast majority of human rights crimes in Colombia were committed not by the military but by the the country's two leftist insurgencies _ the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia and the National Liberation Army _ and the main paramilitary organization, the Self-Defense Forces of Colombia. But he said, the government must do better to protect civilians. ``Despite some real progress, both we and the government of Colombia recognize that the protection of human rights in Colombia needs improvement,'' Boucher said. Sen. Patrick Leahy, who is chairman of the appropriations subcommittee that oversees foreign assistance, countered that Colombia's record was ``disappointing.'' Leahy, D-Vt., added: ``This certification has more to do with the fact that U.S. aid was running out, than with sufficient progress on human rights.'' Leahy and several leading human rights groups charged that the Colombian government has done little to arrest and prosecute paramilitary leaders and their military allies. The groups accuse Colombian officers of sharing intelligence, coordinating roadblocks and remaining in close communication with the Self-Defense Forces during their scorched earth, anti-insurgency drives. Critics cited the case of Gen. Rodrigo Quinones Cardenas, a former regional commander whom they accuse of involvement in massacres at El Salado and Chengue, and the deaths of numerous community leaders. Under pressure from the Bush administration, Quinones was recently sent abroad as a military attache. While administration officials held up the case as a sign of progress, critics said it signaled continuing impunity for military officers working with the Self-Defense Forces. ``The administration is proposing millions in counterterrorism aid to Colombia even as the Colombian military refuses to break ties with a designated terrorist group,'' said Jose Miguel Vivanco, the director of the Americas program at Human Rights Watch. 
