A senior civilian Indonesian official said Tuesday that the United States should drop restrictions imposed almost three years ago on assistance to the Indonesian military and help restore the ``tarnished reputation'' of this nation's army. Laksamana Sukardi, a close adviser to President Megawati Sukarnoputri, said in an interview that members of the U.S. Congress who wanted to continue curbs on military aid should come to Indonesia to understand why it was important to resume training and to send nonlethal equipment. Sukardi stopped short of advocating that the United States help supply the military with weapons. In the aftermath of Sept. 11, Washington has repeatedly asked Indonesia, where a shaky economic and democratic transition is under way, to take firmer action against groups and individuals suspected of having ties to Osama bin Laden and his terrorist network, al-Qaida. The Bush administration, Sukardi said, expects Indonesia, the largest Muslim country in the world, to ``push the button on terror.'' But if the military remains discredited in the eyes of the public, he said, that will be an impossible task for a democratic government. Since Sept. 11, the question of how to deal with the Indonesian military, traditionally the institution that has kept this island archipelago together as a nation, has beset the Bush administration. The Pentagon would like to resume military relations; the State Department is more reluctant. In Congress, backing for the restrictions remains, though Pentagon officials have said they believe that support is eroding. Sukardi said he originally supported the congressional restrictions on American aid, imposed after the Indonesian military was involved in killing civilians in East Timor as it sought independence from Indonesia. The United Nations has helped administer East Timor since its residents voted for independence in August 1999, and the nation will officially gain independence on May 20. The U.N. Secretary-General, Kofi Annan is expected to attend a ceremony in East Timor on that day. The events in East Timor are now in the past, Sukardi said. Under a law written by Sen. Patrick J. Leahy, D-Vt., Indonesia must hold the military officers who were responsible for the deaths in East Timor accountable before it can again qualify to receive American military assistance. A trial of a handful of midlevel military officers on charges relating to East Timor is in progress but appears unlikely to meet the congressional test. Sukardi suggested it was unreasonable to expect a free and fair trial when almost all the judges in Indonesia were holdovers from the authoritarian government of Suharto, which ended with his ouster in 1998. ``I supported Leahy,'' said Sukardi, an economist, who was a prominent member of the democratic opposition during Suharto's last years in power. ``But Leahy has to change his mind. He has to come here and see common sense. East Timor is past.'' In March, the Bush administration sent proposals to Congress that would help Indonesia form a domestic peacekeeping force and provide the Indonesian police with counterterrorism training. Both measures fall short of the kind of assistance that the government here seeks and that Pentagon officials would like to offer. In particular, the Indonesian government would like a resumption of military training in the United States for its officers. 
