Recent editions of the Kentucky Derby have tossed traditional trends to the wind. But since Saturday's 128th renewal is looking like one of the most wide-open in recent years, it might be worthwhile to revisit some of the old profile parameters. Before we get to those, it's important to note that a few things rarely seem to change: _ Horses on the lead usually are doomed. Closers have the advantage. _ Betting the favorite is like adding Enron to your stock portfolio. _ Seeking out a regal distance pedigree is as important as any factor. For the benefit of those who still believe the dual-qualifier system works, there are only three expected to start in this field. Dual qualifiers are those who have a Dosage Index of 4.00 or less and were weighted within 10 pounds of the top horse in the Experimental Handicap (Johannesburg). Those horses are Johannesburg (3.67 Dosage), Came Home (4.00) and Saarland (1.84). And while the dual-qualifier system often pointed to winners, it bears noting that Monarchos, Fusaichi Pegasus, Charismatic and Real Quiet _ the past four Derby winners _ did not meet the criteria. In fact, nonqualifiers have won the Derby nine times since 1988. Dosage, a mathematical formula based on sires in a horse's pedigree line that relate stamina to speed, has been more reliable, but also has had holes shot in it over the past decade (Real Quiet, Charismatic). It has been pretty solid since 1929, however, with only two Derby winners missing the golden mark of 4.00. ``When the Derby is won by a late-developing colt like Monarchos, this angle (dual qualifier) will take it on the chin,'' Jim Mazur points out in his book ``Triple Crown Handicapper 2002.'' Several of this year's contenders fit that description, among them Buddha, Medaglia D'Oro, Easy Grades and Sunday Break. But, as we've learned, they shouldn't simply be tossed aside. There are other significant trends that merit consideration when looking for your Derby horse. You don't want horses under-raced or over-raced, either at age 2 or 3. Look for a competent, accomplished trainer. D. Wayne Lukas (Proud Citizen), Bob Baffert (War Emblem) and Neil Drysdale (Sunday Break) have saddled six of the past seven Derby winners. You're also looking for a horse coming in off a sharp final prep race, preferably within the past month. Rarely does a horse bomb in his final prep and recover going 1 1/4 miles the next time out. The biggest question marks in this Derby are the overseas entrants _ Johannesburg, Castle Gandolfo and Essence of Dubai. The first two have had only one prep race as 3-year-olds, unheard of for a Derby winner. Essence of Dubai has one advantage over the entire field _ he alone has run 1 1/4 miles, winning the UAE Derby. For those counting, it was exactly four years ago that Godolphin Stable's Sheikh Mohammed predicted he would win a Kentucky Derby within four years. It's also a plus to find a horse who has run well over Churchill Downs' quirky surface, or at least worked well over it. Probable favorite Harlan's Holiday is the only Derby contender to have won there. Perfect Drift was second in his Churchill debut. Request For Parole was second twice and third once. If you're a fan of the Beyer Speed Figures, Mazur also points out that eight of the past 10 Derby winners have hit or surpassed 105 at some point during their 3-year-old seasons. We also know that the Breeders' Cup Juvenile winner never has won the Derby. For more on Derby trends, as well as the Preakness and Belmont Stakes, you can pick up a copy of Mazur's book by calling (800) 272-8039. Happy hunting. (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.) Earnings problem: Neil Drysdale had to be the most disappointed trainer in America when Mayakovsky was scratched from last weekend's Derby Trial. That's because Drysdale's Sunday Break is only 23rd on the earnings list of Derby contenders. If more than 20 are entered, a list that now may include Mayakovsky, Sunday Break won't make the starting gate. Windward Passage is next in line if Mayakovsky or any of the other fence-sitters don't enter. Horses to watch: Above The Crowd, Cherry Peppers, Gimme the Willys, Irrepressible Joy, Late Carson, Promise of Love, Silicon Alley, Who's Talking. 
