Secretary of State Colin L. Powell announced Thursday that the United States will join with its allies in planning an international conference this summer to conduct ``accelerated negotiations'' toward a Middle East peace settlement. Details of the meeting have not been worked out. Administration officials suggested that it will not be a high-stakes Middle East summit, in keeping with their pattern of distancing themselves from the Middle East policy of President Clinton. Unlike the Camp David summit in October 2000 that brought Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat and Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel together with Clinton, this year's conference is likely to include foreign ministers from several nations, rather than heads of state, advisers said. But after meetings with European, Russian, and United Nations leaders Thursday, Powell signaled that the administration is increasingly committed to engagement in the region as part of an international coalition. ``This is a time for prompt action, to take advantage of this new window of opportunity that has been presented to us, and we intend to do just that,'' Powell said, referring to Israel's lifting of the siege at Arafat's West Bank compound early Thursday. Palestinian officials did not immediately respond to the proposal. The Israeli Embassy in Washington gave an initial welcome in principle. ``Israel thinks it is positive to have a conference where all those interested in peace and stability will be in attendance,'' said embassy spokesman Mark Regev. Earlier in the day, Bush cautiously embraced the ``signs of progress'' being reported from the region and renewed his call for both the Palestinians and Israelis to take steps to end the conflict. In particular, Bush emphasized his vision of a Palestinian state, which the administration increasingly has raised as a way to jump-start peace talks and as a way to mollify Arab and Palestinian leaders who think the White House has grown too pro-Israeli. US officials also urged Israel to loosen its grip on the movement of Palestinian leaders, to give Arafat a chance to show he can control the territories peacefully. ``A Palestinian state must be achieved by negotiating an end to occupation, but such a state cannot be based on a foundation of terror or corruption,'' Bush said during an appearance with European Union leaders in the East Room of the White House. ``A Palestinian state must be based on the principles that are critical to freedom and prosperity: democracy and open markets, the rule of law, transparent and accountable administration, and respect for individual liberties and civil society,'' the president said. ``We want to work with the Palestinian people, our regional partners in the international community, to build a Palestinian state that both lives at peace with Israel and lives up to the best hopes of its people.'' Without laying out specifics, Powell said the United States, Russia, the EU, and the UN, which he described as a quartet of global power brokers, had agreed that any peace talks must include a political discussion about a Palestinian state. In the past, Israelis have refused to discuss Palestinian statehood during periods of prolonged violence, demanding a resolution of security issues first. ``I just want to reinforce this,'' Powell said. ``When we talk about a conference, it's got to be a conference that deals with all elements that I've described: security, the economic reform, humanitarian issues, and the political way forward. He said that the quartet had agreed to move forward aggressively, ``so that people see not only economic hope, but they see political hope as we move forward toward our vision of a Palestinian state.'' But Powell, the highest-ranking Bush administration official to meet with Arafat, also issued a thinly veiled threat to the Palestinian leader, suggesting that his window of opportunity is limited. ``Mr. Arafat, I hope, will understand that he doesn't have many more chances to seize this kind of an opportunity,'' Powell said. Ariel Sharon, the Israeli prime minister, had proposed a conference to Powell, reportedly with the condition that Arafat not attend. Powell also said then that there were ``many willing sponsors for the conference.'' A senior State Department official has suggested Europe or the Middle East are probable venues. The delicate balance between admonishing and supporting Arafat and Sharon has proven difficult for Bush, whose instinct, in recent months, has been to identify with the Israeli leader's struggle against terrorism. But since the visit of Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia to the United States last week, Bush has carefully offered both criticism and encouragement to both sides. In his remarks Thursday, Bush seemed to offer Arafat a chance to redeem himself, saying the Palestinian leader ``had some chance to grab the peace and hasn't done so in the past, and therefore he's let down the Palestinian people.'' ``Now's the chance to show he can lead,'' Bush said, who But, he quickly added, ``I placed responsibilities on Israel as well.'' The last such Middle East conference, in Madrid in 1991, led to a peace treaty between Israel and Jordan, and the first face-to-face talks between Israel and Syria. Material from wire services was used in this report. 
