Three years ago, when Doug Peters had a stroke that paralyzed his right side, many experts thought his capacity to regain movement depended on the progress he made during the first six months of recovery. After that window of opportunity, they thought, more treatment could do little for him. But that was before Peters met a robot named InMotion2. Last summer, Peters, 59, who lives in Arlington, Mass., joined a research study at Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital in Boston, and worked for eight weeks with the robot made by engineers from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The robot resembles a mechanical limb and, attached to a table, guides the patient's arm in repetitive motions, much like an occupational therapist would. InMotion2, also known as MIT-Manus, was exactly what Peters needed. Right after his stroke, he couldn't even pick up a thin newspaper. Now, after working with the robot, Peters can carry a 25-pound bag of birdseed. ``I had no use of my hand or arm,'' said Peters. ``It was just like a dead piece of meat; it hung down and I couldn't do anything. Now, I have about 80 percent of my movement back.'' Peters is one of 20 patients in the study who suffered from a stroke one to five years ago and worked with the robot, according to Susan Fasoli, a post-doctoral fellow at MIT's department of mechanical engineering, who headed the research study. It was presented at the American Stroke Association's 27th International Stroke Conference in February. Apart from the study, more than 200 other patients have used the robot. Like Peters, they are regaining motion when some experts thought hope was lost. InMotion2 may also prove useful for people with other neurological disorders, such as multiple sclerosis or spinal cord injuries, said Fasoli. While Peters will not be able to resume working as a custodian, he has been able to make significant strides in everyday functioning. He can now brush his hair, and get his toothbrush from the top of the medicine cabinet. Even small gains, he said, are big to stroke patients. ``Try scratching your nose if you can't get your arm up that high,'' he said. ``Well, the day you can, that's pretty good. The gains are all from robotics.'' An estimated 700,000 Americans have strokes each year, according to Dr. Edgar Kenton, a spokesman for the American Stroke Association. Some 4.6 million Americans live with stroke-related problems, yet most health insurance plans only provide coverage for about four to six weeks following a stroke. ``After that, you're on your own,'' said Kenton. ``We're becoming more aware that the longer you keep patients in recovery programs, the better the outcome,'' he said. He hopes that this study will lead to more research proving to insurance companies that there is a need for longer-term coverage. One InMotion2 robot, which now costs about $70,000 to install in a clinic, can provide intensive therapy for hundreds of patients. Even as an adjunct to a human therapist, the robot will be cost-effective, said Fasoli, and will eventually pay for itself. A long-term goal is for people to be able to rent or buy the robot for home use, but that is maybe five years in the future, she said. The robot, however, is not without limitations. InMotion2 can assist only those patients with shoulder and elbow movement and, to really improve functioning, patients need to be able to use their hands. Fasoli and MIT engineers are working to design robots that can help increase hand movements too. Another form of therapy, called constraint-induced movement therapy, does help improve hand motion in patients who had a stroke more than a year ago, and is available to people with higher skill levels than those who would use InMotion2. The principle behind this treatment is that by constraining the undamaged arm, patients are forced to relearn how to use the paralyzed arm. Patients first receive training in using the damaged limb and then the ``good'' limb is tied down. ``The constraint-induced therapy translates immediately into something patients can use at home,'' said Kathy Krebs, an occupational therapist at Spaulding. Not only does it help improve motion, it helps patients perform everyday tasks. ``The robot doesn't always do that,'' she said. Working with the robot, said Krebs, does not have the same level of functionality as does constraint-induced movement therapy, but she said, ``It is a really important step.'' Once patients attain a certain skill level with the robot, they may be able to move on to more function-based therapies. For those who don't or can't try these two therapies, a third option may soon be available. MIT is testing another machine for patients who have suffered a stroke more than one year ago. This device, called a virtual environment system, is less like a robot and more like a video game. While watching a computer screen and hooked to sensors, patients do virtual tasks, like fitting a key in a lock or putting a letter in a mailbox, which exercise their arms and wrists in ways that mimic natural movements. They even get a score based on their performance. The sensors will probably cost only $6,000 to $8,000 apiece, said Dr. Maureen Holden, a scientist at MIT. Such a cost would ideally make it a reality in patients' homes as well as clinics, she said. (EDITORS: There is no charge for use of this story, but please send a tearsheet to Professor Stephen D. Isaacs, Columbia News Service, Graduate School of Journalism, Columbia University, 2950 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10027.) 
