I never cared for soccer, possibly because I don't like hitting things with my head. I played in high school, unwillingly, and remember running up and down the field on a cold winter day, occasionally having control of the ball for a second or two before it was snatched away. I remember waiting endlessly for one team or the other to make a goal, which never seemed to happen. The soccer video games I've played in the past were much the same: players loping up and down the field taking the ball away from one another while I sat on the couch yawning. Sega's Soccer Slam, however, bears little relationship to the sport I played in high school. A fast-paced game that has that goofy black-and-white ball blasting over the field like a rocket, Slam is fun even if the very idea of soccer fills you with ennui. Slam is an arcade sports game, not a simulation. Simulations try to give an accurate representation of a sport while arcade games aim at something fast and furious. Slam is pure arcade, a game that could have been designed by people who don't even like soccer. With goofy cartoon characters who posture and talk trash as they punch and kick their way to the goal, the ability to briefly transform a player into a dangerous glowing super player, and a field so short that you can run from one end to the other in less than five seconds, Slam is soccer with all the boring stuff removed. This is an energetic, down and dirty game. Not only do characters punch one another in taking the ball, but sometimes they punch one another out of spite or to get even. At times a spotlight glides across the field. Catching up to it allows you to shoot at the goal in slow motion, with time to aim for an undefended part of the net. Occasionally a player can make a kind of super pass, which, if it is caught, allows an even more powerful slow-motion serve. With straightforward controls, a decent tutorial and the ability to change not only the difficulty but also the speed of play, Slam is a game almost anyone can sit down and play. But Slam was such a bastardization of soccer that loving the video game didn't change my feelings about the sport. I still thought soccer was boring, enjoyable only if you threw out all the rules _ until I played World Tour Soccer 2002 from 989 Sports, one of the many soccer games being released in anticipation of the World Cup, which begins May 31. With full 11-member soccer teams instead of the 3-member teams of Slam, and a regulation-size field, World Tour was no souped-up, pared-down soccer game. It was fast and wild, with the ball changing sides in a flurry of tackles and steals. I found myself cheering, groaning and banging my seat in fury or joy. I may have liked Slam a tiny bit better, but this was a great game. Perhaps I had been wrong about soccer games: maybe they were fun. Then I tried 2002 FIFA World Cup by EA Sports, and, no, it was just as boring as the soccer games I had tried in the past. I thought again of high school, wandering drearily back and forth across the field. I became so bored so quickly that I began to think that I might just have been in a good mood when I played World Tour, but it was as much fun the second time I played as the first. World Tour was poised to kick a ball through the goalposts of my heart, but it still had to get past some powerful competition. ESPN MLS ExtraTime 2002 by Konami was the next contender. MLS had some nice touches, notably the ability to choose the weather and time of day for games. It also kept up a decent pace. Yet it never grabbed me. My greatest objection was the lack of player movement. Waiting for a pass, the receiver stands still as a statue until the ball reaches him. In other games the players run to intercept the ball. That doesn't affect the play that much, but it makes for a less exciting presentation. I also didn't like my goalie, who seemed utterly incapable of blocking a shot. World Tour breezed past MLS, but things got more difficult when it faced Sega's other soccer game, Virtua Striker 2002. Striker is the most beautiful soccer game I have ever seen. The grass is lush and the people are so detailed that they almost pop out of the screen. One imagines rival soccer game designers bursting into tears, knowing how bland their own games look in comparison. Playing it is fun, too. The action is lively, but I had difficulty controlling the ball, which would often go in surprising directions. The ball frequently went out of bounds, which created annoying halts in the action. In the other games, the ball rarely went out of bounds (in Soccer Slam a force field prevented the ball from ever going out), and that was enough to let World Tour push Striker aside. Soccer is, at least in video games, all about getting and losing that ball. You grab it and kick it down the field from player to player, and just when you're close enough to shoot for a goal someone tackles you and the ball rolls away. Something similar happened to World Tour, which was just about to get the nod as my favorite soccer game when it was blindsided by Red Card 20-03 from Midway. It's hard to know whether Red Card should be compared with World Tour or Soccer Slam. In looks, it is similar to World Tour, but it also has many arcade features. You can make super shots and put on bursts of speed that leave flames trailing behind you. The control scheme seems arbitrary. You combine the triangle button with the lower right trigger for an over-the-top aggressive tackle, but for an over-the-top slide tackle you combine the circle button with the lower left trigger. I would prefer one trigger to be devoted to over-the-top moves. Soccer is a game of turnovers, and, while Red Card had a good run with the ball, when I played World Tour again, it snatched that imaginary ball and scored. I like World Tour a little better, but my reasons are so subjective and arbitrary that I can't even defend them. World Tour can proudly state that it has been declared the best of this year's crop of soccer simulations by someone who hates soccer. Now, what should the trophy look like? PRODUCT NOTES: SOCCER SLAM (Developed by Visual Concepts and published by Sega for the GameCube; $49.95; for all ages.) VIRTUA STRIKER 2002 (Developed by Sega/Amusement Vision and published by Sega for the GameCube; $49.95; for all ages.) ESPN MLS ExtraTime 2002 (Developed by KCEA Honolulu and published by Konami of America for the GameCube and Xbox; $49.99; for all ages.) WORLD TOUR SOCCER 2002  (Developed by SCE and published by 989 Sports for PlayStation 2; $49.99; for all ages.) REDCARD 20-03 (Developed and published by Midway for PlayStation 2, with GameCube and Xbox versions coming later in the spring; $49.99; for all ages.) 2002 FIFA WORLD CUP  (Developed and published by EA Sports for PlayStation 2, the GameCube and the Xbox, at $49.99; and for Windows 95/98/Me and PlayStation at $39.99; for all ages.) 
