Commercial mixes are the cheater's way to tend bar. Just add liquor, blend and pour. Although no bartender worth his shot glass will touch them, you can use them and make hosting a Cinco de Mayo (Fifth of May) celebration easy. As we recently discovered during an informal tasting, there is at least one good margarita mix on store shelves. But be careful, there are many more mediocre ones. Since the only way to evaluate a mix is to prepare it with liquor as intended, we filled our intrepid panel with chips, guacamole and salsa before serving each taster an unlabeled sample of each cocktail. All samples were prepared with the same brand and type of tequila and each mixed with the amount of tequila (and in one case triple sec), specified on the label. All drinks were served on the rocks instead of frozen, as the colder a substance, the less you taste. And we didn't want to contend with a brain-freeze epidemic. Each sample was rated for appearance (20 percent) and taste (80 percent) on a scale of 1 to 10 with 1 being the lowest. The scores were then averaged and the mix with the highest total was proclaimed ``the good stuff.'' Of the eight mixes sampled, one was a powder, one frozen and the rest were liquid. Although some are available premixed with tequila in area liquor stores, we excluded those to ensure all mixes were combined with the same quality and flavor tequila. But even the best booze couldn't save some samples. Our judges deemed margaritas made with the cheapest of the bunch, Francos powdered mix, unfit for human consumption. ``Looks like something spilled from a nuclear plant,'' wrote one taster of the drink's Kool-Aid green tinge. ``Guacamole looks better on the rocks,'' wrote another. When it came to taste, Francos didn't fare much better. ``It may be the only margarita I could not ever finish,'' wrote a judge. Another described it as ``chalky toothpaste, Crest in a cup.'' Finest Call brand liquid mix ($3.49 per liter) was preferred overall by one taster. The others scored it high on appearance but wrote that it was too sweet to garner top honors. The other four judges gave Bacardi frozen margarita mix high marks, making it the runaway winner. Tasters raved about its sourness and ``fresh-squeezed taste.'' The light-green appearance was described as ``inviting'' and ``bright.'' Perhaps too inviting if you consider one judge's comment: ``I would drink this excessively.'' At $2.49 for enough concentrate to make 40 ounces of margaritas, Bacardi wasn't the least expensive, but it was cheaper than all six liquid mixes. Which is another good reason to buy it for a large party. The one thing all the mixes had in common, according to the tasters, was that the directions didn't call for enough tequila. ___ MARGARITA Makes 1 drink From ``Complete World Bartender Guide'' (Bantam, 1993) 2 ounces tequila 2 teaspoons Cointreau 1 tablespoon lime juice 1/2 lime Combine tequila, Cointreau and lime juice in a shaker with ice. Shake well. Rub rim of glass with the cut edge of the lime half. Press rim of glass into salt. Strain drink into glass. ___ MARGARITAS FOR TWO 1 cup tequila 1/4 cup triple sec 1/2 (6-ounce) can frozen limeade concentrate Juice of one fresh lemon 2 cups large ice cubes Combine tequila, triple sec, limeade concentrate, lemon juice and ice into a blender. Pulse or blend just long enough to mix. Pour into salt-rimmed glasses. 
