BIKERS' TURF WAR FEARED(a) (For use by N.Y. Times News Service clients)(a) By Mark Shaffer and Dennis Wagner(a) c.2002 The Arizona Republic(a) Hells Angels icon Ralph ``Sonny'' Barger had a lot more on his mind than writer's cramp as he autographed copies of his books in a casino parking lot last week during the Laughlin River Run motorcycle fest in Nevada. Federal and state law officers said Barger, a Cave Creek resident, had taken stock of his gang's deteriorating relations with other biker gangs like the Mongols, Vagos and Banditos and had set up a ``peace powwow'' in the Arizona desert west of Kingman at the end of the huge biker gathering. But before the meeting could take place, a melee ensued in Harrah's Casino early Saturday between the Hells Angels and Mongols, in which three were killed and 12 were wounded, and a Hells Angel member was shot to death on Interstate 40 near Ludlow, Calif., while en route to Laughlin. Now, it's what Phoenix police Detective J.P. Wilson, who specializes in biker gangs, calls ``an official war'' among the competing groups in Arizona and throughout North America and Europe for control of turf. In some areas, distribution of methamphetamine also is being contested, he said. State and federal agents worry that Arizona could be a big player in that turf war. They say that more than 200 Hells Angels live in the state and have chapters in the Valley, Tucson and Prescott areas and have a presence in the Globe and Yuma areas. The Mongols, based in Los Angeles, have long sought a toehold in the Valley and have had encounters with Hells Angels in the Phoenix area but have not worn their gang clothing or insignias locally, federal agents say. Lt. Rick Gehlbach of the Phoenix police said the local dispute is all about turf. ``I don't think it's meth. I think it's turf. It's face-saving, it's posturing, it's territory. Hells Angels claim Arizona, period, and the Mongols don't respect any boundaries at all,'' Gehlbach said. A history of trouble Last year, leaders of the Hells Angels and Mongols were involved in a shooting and stabbing in San Diego County, and the two gangs clashed with handlebars and shock absorbers as weapons at a Costa Mesa, Calif., swap meet. Earlier this year, members of the Mongols formed an alliance with the Vagos, Banditos, Pagans and Outlaws gangs against the Hells Angels, Wilson said. ``It's virtually everybody against the Hells Angels, and they're feeling the pressure,'' Wilson said. ``{hellip}The Hells Angels have said they are not going to stand for this, and this is an official war.'' A worker at Barger's Cave Creek Cycle Shop said that neither he nor Barger would comment about the Laughlin shootings or future dealings with other motorcycle groups. The three victims at Harrah's were identified Tuesday by the Clark County Medical Examiner's Office as Jeramie Dean Bell, 27 of Hughson, Calif.; Robert Emmet Tumelty, 50, of Stockton, Calif.; and Anthony Salvador Barrera, 43, of Rancho Cucamonga, Calif. Bell and Tumelty died of gunshot wounds and Barrera of stab wounds, a medical examiner's spokesman said. In 1977, shortly after the Hells Angels/Mongols feud began in Southern California, a bomb was ignited in the parking lot of a San Diego mortuary where friends of two slain Mongols had gathered. The only person arrested thus far on suspicion of murder in the Laughlin melee is Calvin Schaefer, 32, of Chandler. Schaefer became a full member of the Hells Angels during the past 18 months and has worked as a sheet-metal installer in the Valley at various construction sites, said David Woods of Phoenix, a former co-worker. ``I was really surprised about this,'' Woods said. ``He was a bit standoffish at work, but I wouldn't have expected anything like this to happen.'' Surprise turn of events Schaefer's neighbor, Cecelia Vitolo, said she had no problems with him. ``When I heard about it, I was in shock. I knew he had motorcycles and knew he had friends, but I didn't think he would be capable of anything like that,'' Vitolo said. Another neighbor, Peggy Bowen, described Schaefer as ``a great guy'' and said there was no hint that he belonged to the Hells Angels. ``This is just shocking to me,'' Bowen said. ``I've never seen any evidence of a volatile nature about Cal. He's just so laid back.'' The brawl in Laughlin broke out shortly after 2 a.m. Saturday in a crowded bar area on the first floor of Harrah's near banks of slot machines. According to police, most of the Mongols had been staying at Harrah's while attending Laughlin River Run festivities, and most of the Hells Angels had been at the Flamingo and across the Colorado River at a hotel in Bullhead City. Police said that Hells Angels had told them that they had been harassed and intimidated by Mongols when they visited Harrah's on Thursday and Friday. A group of Hells Angels returned to Harrah's shortly after a fellow member was shot to death on Interstate 40. Brian Truchon, an FBI supervisory special agent in Phoenix, looks at the biker disputes through the long lens of history. Thirty years ago, biker gangs in the United States began battling regularly and established territorial boundaries. That violence moved overseas to Europe during the past decade. Now it has come back home, Truchon said. ``What we exported is now being exported back to us,'' Truchon said. ``This definitely won't be the last time you see it. {hellip}When one group has hit the other, you've seen retaliation.'' Republic reporter Senta Scarborough contributed to this article. Reach the reporters at mark.shaffer(a)arizonarepublic.com or (602)444-8057 and dennis.wagner(a)arizona republic.com or (602) 444-8874. 
