Al Gore plucked him from the sidelines where he was a junior senator and put him on the Democratic national ticket in 2000. They almost made it to the White House, in fact beating George W. Bush and Dick Cheney in the popular vote. So Sen. Joseph Lieberman of Connecticut would like to see Gore run again in 2004 and claim the position that eluded him. Right? Well, wrong. Asked in an interview whether he thought his mentor should seek a rematch, Lieberman managed a hesitant reply: ``It's a very big personal decision for him, so he's got to make it. I don't have an opinion on it.'' While Lieberman is indeed grateful to Gore for choosing him in 2000, he leaves no doubt that he hopes the former vice president stays out of the race in 2004. The senator has had a taste of the national limelight and now wants the top slot for himself. He has begun assembling a team of strategists. He is bustling around the country on behalf of candidates, and himself. He is delivering a major policy speech each month. His political action committee has dispensed more money to 2002 candidates than has Gore's. The predicament for Lieberman is that he has long vowed not to run if Gore does. And while Gore insists that he has made no decision, he has been so visible in recent days that many Democrats who once questioned his ardor are now convinced that he is itching to take on Bush again. ``If I'm Joe Lieberman, I'm going to do everything in my power to prepare myself to run for president,'' said Terry McAuliffe, the Democratic national chairman. ``That makes all the sense in the world. However, he's got his commitment out there, and if Al Gore runs he will not run.'' At no time in modern political history have a presidential nominee and his running mate both energetically pursued their party's nomination for the next election. If Gore and Lieberman are headed that way, they will have company: Those most aggressively building Democratic presidential campaigns include Sen. John Kerry of Massachusetts, Sen. John Edwards of North Carolina and Rep. Dick Gephardt of Missouri, the House Democratic leader. Publicly, Gore and Lieberman profess only admiration for each other. At the recent Democratic state convention in Orlando, Fla., Gore said choosing Lieberman was ``the single best decision I made in that campaign.'' But behind the scenes, there is sniping between advisers to the two. Some Lieberman loyalists interpreted that remark by Gore as an effort to make clear that he thought Lieberman was indebted to him. Though Gore, Lieberman and their wives had breakfast together at the convention, Gore resisted entreaties from the Democratic state chairman, Bob Poe, to make a triumphal appearance on stage with Lieberman. Gore's camp cited a scheduling conflict, but more recently some Gore supporters expressed annoyance at a pitch by Lieberman to Silicon Valley and environmentalists, saying he was encroaching on Gore turf. Lieberman's advisers, in turn, have not been particularly complimentary of Gore. After Gore's well-received speech in Orlando, one top Lieberman adviser asked a reporter whether he thought it strange that the speech, unlike Lieberman's, had made no mention of the Middle East. In his own talk at the convention, Lieberman said the Bush administration was exercising too much restraint on the Israelis, whose sweep into the West Bank the senator compared to the American war on terror. Asked later whether Gore had erred in neglecting to mention the Middle East conflict, the senator said, ``That was a personal judgment.'' Though Gore's selection of Lieberman made for some memorable moments in the 2000 campaign, the two have not been particularly chummy. Asked how much contact he had had with Gore since the election, Lieberman said: ``Not a lot. We're both busy.'' Until their breakfast in Orlando, the senator said, the Gores and the Liebermans had not been together in more than a year. And when they did get together there, he said, no one dared touch the topic that was on everyone's mind. ``Believe it or not,'' he said, ``there was not a moment's discussion about politics. Perhaps intentional.'' The only time the matter has come up with Gore, Lieberman said, was ``in one casual conversation last year when he said he just hasn't decided, and I think that's where he is: undecided.'' (BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) For months, Lieberman appeared to waffle on his pledge not to run against Gore. In recent weeks he has been emphatic in that promise, though he acknowledged in the interview that some supporters had broached scenarios in which he would run anyway. ``People will come up to me and suggest a theory to do that,'' Lieberman said. ``I made a pledge, and I'm going to keep my word.'' If he did take on Gore, would the effort backfire? ``I don't know,'' he said. Others argue that a Lieberman campaign could not be successful with Gore in the race. ``It would be very awkward,'' said Sen. Robert G. Torricelli, D-N.J. ``Part of what Joe Lieberman offers is the sense that he's a gentleman. To be in a contest with his own mentor would be a contradiction with his nature.'' Some Democrats cannot see a clear path to the nomination for Lieberman regardless of Gore's decision. As a distinctly moderate candidate, they argue, he would have difficulty winning over liberals, who vote heavily in Democratic primaries. Gore is in a far more commanding position. A CNN/Time poll taken April 10-11 found that Democrats were four times as likely to say they would vote for him as for the senator, an outcome probably attributable largely to name recognition. But one Lieberman stalwart, Al From, chief executive of the Democratic Leadership Council, countered: ``If Joe Lieberman ran, he'd do just fine. It's a myth that Democratic primary voters are somehow far to the left of general-election voters. Bill Clinton wasn't the liberal in the race.'' (END OPTIONAL TRIM) The thinking in the Lieberman camp is that even if Gore runs, the senator can only help himself by gearing up for a race. At the very least, a raising of his profile might put him in position to be picked again as a running mate, by Gore or another nominee. Tom Nides, a Democratic strategist who volunteers that he is ``totally in the tank'' for Lieberman, said: ``Joe Lieberman would be an asset to anyone. As a candidate for president. As a running mate. As a power broker. There's a reason why almost every Senate and gubernatorial candidate in the country wants him to campaign for them.'' People close to Gore said he might be bemused but was not threatened by Lieberman's presidential ambitions. ``My guess is that Gore takes Lieberman at his word and is proceeding apace,'' said Carter Eskew, Gore's senior strategist in 2000. In the end, their ambitions could lead Gore, now 54, and Lieberman, 60, to team up again. People in both camps have floated the idea of their entering the primaries as what some have called a ``we wuz robbed'' ticket, presenting themselves as raring for a rematch. ``It would be a dream ticket for me,'' Eskew said, ``as it was in 2000.'' Others are not so eager. Torricelli, for one, said Gore should have picked Sen. Bob Graham of Florida, the state where the election tilted. ``If his vice presidential choice had been Bob Graham,'' Torricelli said, ``he'd be in the White House.'' In any event, Lieberman is not interested for now in talking about the No. 2 spot. ``That's one that I honestly have not given a moment's thought to,'' he said, ``because I'm getting ready to make a decision myself about whether I should run for president.'' 
