The tiny faces shared the same arced hairline, full chin, lollipop cheeks. The composite sketch of the anonymous little girl found decapitated here a year ago could have been copied from the photograph of the 5-year-old from Florida who has not been seen for 15 months. But the side-by-side palm prints were of strangers. The dead girl, nicknamed Precious Doe by the thousands here who adopted her posthumously, had a web of tight lines at the center, a looping pattern between her ring and middle fingers. The missing girl, Rilya Wilson, has loose ridges spreading to the hand's edges, and no loop. ``Obviously, the prints were not made by the same individual,'' Carl Carlson of the Kansas City Police Department said at a news conference. ``They're both palm prints. That's the only similarity.'' News from Florida on Tuesday that a little girl had slipped through the social services safety net and disappeared for 15 months had been embraced here. Some saw it as the most promising of the more than 800 leads the police have chased since the brutalized body of Precious turned up without a clue to her identity. But after speculation that the twin tragedies were two sides of the same horrible story, the authorities said it appeared unlikely that Precious Doe was Rilya Wilson, although they questioned the authenticity of the missing girl's prints and said they were eager to compare DNA samples to be sure. For the people here who have spent a year mourning a girl they had never met, the news only meant they had another soul to pray for. They began Wednesday afternoon, under a drizzle, at the pile of teddy bears and plastic flowers that has become a community icon since Precious' body was found April 28, 2001. They had been there since 4:30 a.m., a year after the $33,000 reward fund was begun. They were there Tuesday until midnight, as news of Rilya filtered from Florida. They have been there every Saturday, lighting candles and sharing hugs, a dozen, sometimes a hundred, neighbors who would not otherwise have met. They pray not just for Precious, but for the all the city's victims: a sign by the memorial tracks the number of days since the last homicide. Wednesday, it was seven. Precious ``became a metaphor for crime in our city,'' said Alonzo Washington. ``Satan had a plan to throw her away. But she was found in front of a church. We, as a community, can change those plans.'' In Miami on Wednesday, the police said that Rilya's palm print, which had been taken at a mall as part of a community safety program, could not be verified as authentic or accurate. The girl's mother, Gloria Wilson, contacted in East Cleveland, Ohio, said she would provide a DNA sample; officials said testing would take about a week. Here in Kansas City, the day began with new hope but ended with the same sad questions. Whitney Bates, 42, first brought her daughter Stephanie, 6, to the memorial at 59th Street and Kensington Avenue months ago. ``She wanted to know why we call her Precious,'' Bates recalled. ``I told her, because we didn't know who she is.'' Wednesday morning, as Bates curled Stephanie's hair, they watched the news, and Stephanie sounded out the new name: RILL-yah. ``She said, `She's pretty,''' Bates said. ``She wanted her to have a name.'' Bates was among dozens of people, many with children, who stopped at Hibbs Park on Wednesday to stare at the laminated sketches of Precious captioned, ``Don't keep silent.'' There is a child's blue plastic chair, a pink flamingo lawn ornament, a paper sign saying ``Happy Birthday,'' American flags. On the rim of the canopy someone put up lists of the city's 114 homicide victims in 2001: June 28, unknown black male, found at 33rd and Benton. July 20, unknown male, 7th and Cypress. The park is clean and safe now, surrounded by Neighborhood Watch signs. Some of the people who organized a funeral for Precious in December at the city's largest black church now plan to erect a permanent memorial on the site, with a walking trail across the street where her body was found. ``The community shouldn't be comforted when there was a child that no one knew that came up dead,'' said the Rev. DeWayne Bright, youth pastor of the Metropolitan Missionary Baptist Church, explaining why his boss refused to offer the traditional words of comfort at the funeral. ``As long as you go back to being comfortable, you forget about all the other children who are being hurt out there.'' The case, which has been featured on ``America's Most Wanted'' and the ``Today'' show, has brought new visibility and coherence to African-American groups in a city of 441,000 people that is 31 percent black. It also has introduced many white suburbanites to the city's urban core, and shined attention on the problems of child abuse and neglect. ``She was put here for a purpose,'' said Flo Humo, 63, who lives in a country club neighborhood and started the reward fund with a $1,000 donation. ``If nothing more than to bring me here, to open up my eyes, to give me this blessing, and also maybe to bring all the people together, all the communities together.'' 
