NEW YORK_ ``I told my husband I'll either do my Ph.D. or I'll do a house,'' said Wan Kyun Rha Kim last week. Kim, who wore a silk lace jacket with a cascade of pink silk roses, sat in her kitchen serving coffee and pang, Korean steamed buns. Her house, on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, is to every degree a higher education _ in decorative effect and much, much else. The big Botticelli painted by Zhang Mingji, hanging in the music room, the Smith College carp pond that Kim painted on a bathroom floor, the Asian and African-American cherubs winging it on her bedroom ceiling _ this is Kim's doctorate. A life-size California-redwood tiger, an animal in Asia that symbolizes protection from evil, and an Italian Renaissance woman, a ship's figurehead that protected sailors from misfortune, guard the front door inside the entrance hall. ``Double security,'' Kim said, as if they were locks. The two purple Tiffany-glass floor lamps flanking the stone Buddha she built herself. ``I took a lesson in making stained glass,'' she said. ``I love Tiffany windows and I can't afford them. I used pink light bulbs, to add pink to the color.'' Kim, a physical chemist, has lived in the house with her husband, Andrew Kim, a pension-fund manager, since 1982, when they bought it from Faye Dunaway, the actress. ``She's a house freak,'' Kim said of Dunaway. ``In dungarees, scrubbing all over _ I watched her. She did all the dirty work.'' Dunaway, who had just moved in, decamped quickly, moving to London to be with a new lover and dumping the house cheaply. Kim got to work, and hasn't stopped yet. She painted four bathroom floors herself, including the Rousseau-like wilderness on the sixth floor, the rose garden on five, the waves crashing on rocks on three and the carp pond on two. She has two bathrooms to go. ``I wish I had 30 hours a day,'' she said. ``I could do so much.'' The Kims also collect art, largely Chinese contemporary, including art of the Cultural Revolution. Kim got several artists to help with the house, including Wang Zhenghua, who painted Renaissance-style frescoes on the dining room ceiling, and Zhang, who executed large wall panels to her specifications in the style of Botticelli and Charles Joseph Natoire, an 18th-century French Enlightenment painter. Yang Qian painted an Ingres and a Mondrian for her; they hang in the dining room. Kim has dinner-party diners sign the white cloth that sets the table. She embroiders the signatures into the cloth as documentary art of her evening's entertainment, using the cloth again for her next party. Paintings have turned most walls into galleries; there are paintings propped on chairs and on the floors, too. ``You're not a collector unless you have more paintings than wall space,'' she said. ``My definition.'' Kim, also an artist, painted a Modigliani portrait of Andrew Kim with a Joan Miro background in a painted Mexican-naif frame on the kitchen wall. ``I had a Mexican artist do the framing,'' she explained. ``My paintings are not that good, so I try to get really good frames. Like an ugly woman _ you have to wear outstanding clothes to get noticed.'' The kitchen, just beyond the entrance hall, is Kim's gallery of her own artwork, including several periods and places of inspiration, from Norman Rockwell's New England to Vincent Van Gogh's Provence. Kim's ``Sunflowers'' is in the pantry. She started painting in the 1970s when her sons, Gene, 37, and Ty, 36, were young boys. Guests to the house stop first in the kitchen, to pick up drinks, then walk upstairs. ``Self-serve,'' Kim said. ``So, they are forced to see my paintings.'' She laughed quickly but with conviction. Kim loves art. She loves golf too. ``I'm very greedy,'' she said. ``I wish there were 36 holes instead of 18.'' On the mantel in her husband's office is a family photograph framed by a ceramic frame that says ``Golfaholic.'' Behind it is Kim's Eagle Award, for her par 5, in 1993, on the Rivervale course in New Jersey. ``Hard as a hole-in-one, just different,'' she said. The six-story 19th-century house, with its multiple Mao portraits, its fine French furniture and its background of original English oak woodwork, like a library at an academy in a Borges fable, not only houses the Kims' collections of art, ceramics and antiques. It is also Kim's hothouse of ideas about the world, East and West, and life present and past. The house is both museum and studio, Kim both curator and creator. ``It's my diary,'' she said, standing in the master bathroom in beaded slippers between two painted lotus pads. Kim called the bathroom floors her ``history of happiness,'' each a place that she remembered, with great and good power _ the pond at Smith College where she and Andrew Kim, then her beau, walked when she was a student and he visited from New York, where he studied at Columbia, the rose garden in New Jersey where they lived, the beach on Cape Cod where they took their children on holiday. ``No one ever records happiness in history,'' she said. ``It's war, or death. Never happiness.'' Of their courtship in the 1960s, she said: ``There were so few Korean students at the time that the Korean consulate general used to give us dinner parties in New York. That's where I met him. I was kind of shy. Somehow, we fell in love.'' The Kims, both born in Seoul, did so without their parents' permission. Kim smiled. ``It was ... pioneering.'' (BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) Behind her, a school of goldfish swam across the shower curtain. The walls and ceiling, which are a collaboration between Kim and Zhang, depict the 10 symbols of longevity in Korean art, including peonies, bamboo, peaches, mountains and deer. Kim wore natural pearl earrings, which swung at her ears like tiny, iridescent rocks from space. It is difficult to escape the orbit of Kim's thinking when in her house. ``They're asymmetrical,'' she said. ``I don't go for perfect, round things. Life is never perfect. These are odd shapes. Like, your life can be different from others. That's why I like them.'' (END OPTIONAL TRIM) Andrew Kim often seems, by design, the tail to his wife's kite. ``Uh, you thought you were shy?'' he asked, as she joined him in his office. Kim nodded, opening a wood box with a 17th-century wine jar inside. Very little seems to surprise Andrew Kim, but his wife is a constant, like a weekly episode on television. The Kims bear some uncannily quiet resemblance to the Ricardos. The office houses much of the Kim families' ceramics and bronzes collection, parts of which went to the Hood Museum at Dartmouth College, when they donated an Asian art gallery in 1985. There is also much college memorabilia in the house: mugs, pillows, golf club cosies. The four Kims have attended Harvard, Stanford, Cornell, Smith, Columbia, Dartmouth and MIT. Much of the Kims' Chinese revolutionary art is in the office too. Kim acquired it, visiting university professors at art departments when she traveled with her husband, who was frequently on business in China in the 1980s. The Kims continued to collect the same artists through the 1990s as their styles and subjects changed from Communist historical celebration and popular propaganda to landscape study and foreign scenes. ``I wanted to save the Cultural Revolutionary art,'' Kim said. ``The Chinese were poor. Large canvases were being used for roof repair. But it was an important period, in all of Asia. Communism changed Koreans' lives too.'' Andrew Kim listened to his wife, then agreed. ``It was controversial,'' he said of the collection. ``South Korea is an anti-Communist country, America's `staunchest ally.' Even today, some friends comment.'' The Hood Museum turned down the collection, asking for money instead. Kim bought furnishings for the house, on their travels, too, in Asia and Europe, supplementing them at auction houses in New York. The gilt chandelier in the music room came back from Paris with her as seven parcels of carry-on luggage. ``He never helps,'' Kim said of her husband. ``He's too embarrassed.'' In addition to two carved rosewood 19th century Chinese thrones _ his and hers _ and a Louis Quinze-style pink settee, the music room features musical instruments. ``I love music,'' said Kim, who plays the Korean ka ya kum and the Japanese koto. ``I don't play very well, but I learned.'' She held up a 15th century koto, which, when purchased, had no strings. She restrung it. ``I used to play a lot of tennis,'' she said. ``So I used tennis string. The sound is not quite the same, but nevertheless.'' She gave it a hard pluck, as if she was getting ready to serve. The room's red damask Scalamandre wall covering, as well as other wall coverings throughout the house, wall stenciling and plasterwork repair was provided by the production team on ``Trading Places,'' the 1983 movie starring Dan Aykroyd and Eddie Murphy, which was shot in the house shortly after the Kims bought it. Location scouts knocked at the door. Kim declined money, then struck her deal. ``We went shopping together,'' she recalled, looking pleased, as though it had been a family outing. ``They kind of decorated the house for me.'' After Faye Dunaway finished the dirty work. 
