The car slams into the wall in slow motion. Its hood crumples like an accordion in an amazing feat of engineering. It's all about peace of mind, says the announcer with the soothing voice. Ten years ago, car safety was all about antilock brakes and airbags. These days, it's about crumple zones and side-impact door beams. Car makers are only too happy to boast in their advertising when one of their models gets the federal government's five-star rating for crash protection. But a vehicle's performance in the government's crash tests doesn't necessarily reflect how it will perform in other crash scenarios, warns R. David Pittle, senior vice president for technical policy at Consumer Reports magazine. ``I wouldn't look to ads to give objective facts.'' That's because there's another organization, this one financed by the insurance industry, that does crash tests, too. It's called the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, and its results sometimes smack head-on into the results of the National Highway Traffic and Safety Administration. Several vehicles that received the government's four- or five-star ratings in its full-frontal crash tests have received ``poor'' or ``marginal'' ratings by the Insurance Institute. They include the 2002 Nissan Quest minivan, 2002 Hyundai Elantra, the 2002 Dodge Neon, the 2002 Ford F-150 and the 2001 Isuzu Rodeo 4X4. In the advertising for some of these vehicles, such as the Quest and the F-150, only the government's test results are mentioned. ``The manufacturer can truthfully, but in a misleading way, show one test but leave the other test out,'' said Pittle. ``It's only half of the truth.'' In an e-mail response, Gina Pasco, a Nissan spokeswoman, denied that the company was misleading the public. She said Nissan was continuing to review the results, and respected the testing done by the government and by the institute. Pasco added: ``We believe it is difficult for any one test to accurately reflect real-world conditions, and the real world safety performance of the Quest is excellent.'' In the government's frontal crash tests, the full width of the front of a vehicle is crashed into a fixed barrier at 35 mph. The government also conducts side-impact tests. A five-star rating means that the occupant of the vehicle has a 10 percent or less chance of sustaining serious injury. In the Insurance Institute's 40 mph tests, only a portion of the front end is crashed, thus putting more stress on the structure of the vehicle, and causing a greater likelihood of intrusion into the passenger compartment. Representatives from both agencies said it was important for consumers to analyze both sets of results. ``We don't pretend for a second that if you look at our tests it paints a full picture,'' said Richard Simon, regional program manager for the National Highway Traffic and Safety Administration, in New York. However, Adrian Lund, the Insurance Institute's chief operating officer in Arlington, Va., says his agency's tests do a better job of simulating a real-world crash. ``An offset scenario is more likely,'' he said. ``It's very unusual to engage the full front of the vehicle.'' Lund added that the institute will begin conducting side impact tests on vehicles later this year. The barriers it will use will be further from the ground than the government's barriers, to replicate crashes involving sport utility vehicles or pick-up trucks. Pittle says the best advice he can give to consumers is to look for vehicles that do well in both sets of tests. He added that he hopes the government expands its crash-testing program to encompass both types of frontal crashes. Doing so would prevent car makers from being selective in their advertising if a vehicle performed well in one test, but not in the other. Right now, he said, consumers ``are not getting a comprehensive picture.'' That said, the fact that both agencies release their results to the public has provided a strong incentive to car makers to improve crash-test performance, he said. According to Pittle, 30 percent of the vehicles tested by the government received high frontal-crash scores in 1985. In 2001, that number climbed to 90 percent. ``We're both allies,'' said Simon. ``We have the same mission.'' (EDITORS: There is no charge for use of this story, but please send a tearsheet to Professor Stephen D. Isaacs, Columbia News Service, Graduate School of Journalism, Columbia University, 2950 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10027.) 
