The landlord of an Manhattan apartment building who was convicted of fatally shooting a tenant, then stepping over the dying woman to tend to his building's trash, was sentenced to 20 years to life in prison Tuesday, after mumbling to a judge that he was ``sorry about what happened that day.'' In all other respects, the landlord, Louis Hubrecht, appeared unmoved as his victim's relatives struggled through personal statements about how their lives had changed since the woman, Barbara B. Kenna, was found dead, shot six times at close range in a Madison Avenue apartment building on Sept. 11, 2000. Hubrecht, who was convicted of second-degree murder in State Supreme Court in Manhattan in March, never denied killing Kenna, a 68-year-old librarian. During the trial, Hubrecht's lawyer, Robert C. Gottlieb, argued that Hubrecht was anxious and afraid, and felt threatened by Kenna. The two had feuded for more than 30 years. Gottlieb wanted to pursue Hubrecht's claim of self-defense, but Justice Harold B. Beeler ruled that the jury could not consider it. The sweet portrait of Kenna presented Tuesday contrasted with the image the defense tried to paint during the trial. While not denying that she was a ``good and decent woman,'' Gottlieb sought to convey Hubrecht's frustration with someone he saw as a troublesome tenant who had written notes on the backs of her rent checks for decades, accusing the landlord of robbing and vandalizing her apartment. Kenna had lived at 700 Madison Avenue, between 62nd and 63rd Streets, for 34 years, and had often complained to friends and family members about problems with Hubrecht. Citing Hubrecht's videotaped statement at his arraignment, the prosecutor, Robert Frazer, said that on the morning of Sept. 11, 2000, Kenna was pulling a metal luggage cart down the stairs from her penthouse apartment when it banged against Hubrecht's door. When Hubrecht peered through the peephole and saw Kenna, he reached for his .38-caliber revolver, opened the door and fired. He said she was holding a hammer and saying, ``I'm going to kill you.'' Paramedics found the dying Kenna with a hammer in her left hand, but prosecutors suggested that the hammer might have been placed there after the shooting, since Kenna was right-handed, and her fingerprints did not appear on it. Gottlieb asked Justice Beeler to show compassion in the sentencing. The prosecutor, Robert Frazer, asked for the maximum penalty. The judge said he considered Hubrecht's advanced age and his ``clear psychological inability to cope'' in deciding on a prison term, but added, ``nothing can ever excuse what happened that day.'' He said Hubrecht acted out of anger, and in a manner that was clearly unjustified. Frazer said he thought the sentencing was just, and assured Kenna's family members outside the courtroom that Hubrecht ``would be in jail for the rest of his natural life.'' Bielling, Kenna's sister, could hardly hear the apology that Hubrecht offered just before his sentence was imposed. She turned to her brother and asked, ``What did he say?'' Still, she said, the apology was meaningful to her family. ``It meant something that he said it, because up to now there's been nothing, and I couldn't believe a human being could be so cold.'' 
