WASHINGTON--As a bill was introduced in the Senate Wednesday to curb predatory lending, an advocacy group released a new study that suggests such legislation is needed in the refinancing loan industry. The eight-month study found that minorities are more likely to receive high-cost mortgages than whites, and that disparity is greatest among those with above-average incomes. ``You would think that people with higher incomes and better credit would get better loans,'' said Allen Fishbein, an author of the survey conducted for the non-profit advocacy group Center for Community Change. But according to researchers, that is not the case. Lower-income blacks are 2.4 times more likely to receive high cost, or subprime, loans as lower-income whites. But upper-income blacks are three times more likely to receive subprime loans than their white counterparts. The same trend occurs among Native Americans and Hispanics. In St. Louis, the city with the highest racial disparities on the upper-income level, a high-salaried black borrower is almost six times more likely to get a high-cost loan than a white borrower. The other top four cities are Chicago, San Francisco, New Orleans and Indianapolis. ``It means the minority market is not functioning the way the white market is,'' said Fishbein. He blamed the disparity on a lack of mainstream lenders in minority communities. Lawmakers and advocacy groups believe high-income minorities, who probably qualify for conventional loans, are steered towards more costly loans because of two factors: a history of banks turning down loans for minorities and aggressive marketing by subprime lenders and their associates in minority neighborhoods. A new bill, introduced Wednesday by Senate banking chair Paul Sarbanes (D-Md.) and co-sponsored by 14 other senators, would strengthen existing federal laws to curb predatory lending and restrict subprime lending. Current law provides consumer protection for subprime loans defined as ``high cost mortgage.'' Sarbanes' proposal modifies the old definition to include more subprime loans. ``But subprime lending has been a very good thing,'' said Jeffrey Zeltzer, executive director of the National Home Equity Mortgage Association, which represents a large part of the country's subprime lenders. Subprime loans allow people with bad or no credit histories to raise funds by refinancing their mortgage. ``(Subprime lenders) offer lending to people who have historically been denied it,'' said Zeltzer. But such loans are usually based on a borrower's equity_the value of the home_rather than the homeowner's ability to repay the loan. Disaster strikes when people take on unaffordable loans and lose their homes. ``I won't deny that there's abuses in the subprime market, but it's a lot less than people think,'' Zeltzer said. ``The essential problem is misrepresenting the terms to customers.'' Besides costly fees and interest rates, subprime loans often include terms like prepayment penalties, costly credit insurance and balloon payments. Predatory lenders don't explain such terms to their customers, and many borrowers end up losing their homes. ``The most devastating effects of predatory loans are foreclosures, depressed home values and a downward spiral in communities,'' said Mike Reinemer, spokesman for National League of Cities, which supports anti-predatory lending laws. Advocacy groups and past surveys have long pointed to the poor, elderly, and minorities as main targets for predatory lenders. Fishbein believes the solution is twofold: ``There's got to be tough federal laws to protect against abusive lending practices, and prime lenders need to be more active in minority communities.'' Zeltzer and others in the subprime market believe the answer is consumer education not more laws. The debate over predatory lending has pitted some cities against their state legislatures, where industries have more lobbying power. Local anti-predatory laws in Dayton, Ohio were overturned by the state legislature last year. The same happened in Philadelphia. Cleveland is defying a state ban by passing an anti-predatory lending law that has landed the city in court against mortgage industry groups. The survey analyzed 1.7 million home refinanced loans in 331 metropolitan areas. William Wan's e-mail address is wwan(at)coxnews.com. ENDIT Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
