Ending a recent drought in local telecommunications acquisitions, Cisco Systems announced Wednesday it is buying a Billerica, Mass. telecom software company for $173 million. Separately, Lucent Technologies sold a 150-person software operation based in Marlborough, Mass. to a Los Angeles private-equity firm for an undisclosed sum. Cisco's bid for Hammerhead Networks was unusual in that it had helped fund the 85-person company's launch two years ago along with Waltham-based Charles River Ventures, and that it already owned an 11.1 percent stake in Hammerhead. Based on Hammerhead successfully developing a software system for Cisco routers, the Internet equipment giant agreed to buy the rest of the company and will move it to its Chelmsford campus. The Lucent deal involved a unit, with roots in Maynard-based Stratus Technologies, that makes network-management software for big phone companies. Platinum Equity LLC of Los Angeles _ which has bought more than 40 companies that make ``mission-critical'' hardware, software, and systems _ plans to relaunch the Lucent unit under its own name later this year. It will remain based in Marlborough for the near future, a Platinum spokeswoman said. For Cisco, based in San Jose, Calif., the Hammerhead deal was its first local acquisition since its $6 billion purchase of Internet switch maker ArrowPoint Communications of Acton in May 2000. Cisco, which completed more than a dozen acquisitions of Interstate 495 start-ups in the 1990s that have brought its New England presence to about 2,100 employees, had said it expected its US dealmaking activity to slow to eight to 12 acquisitions this year. While Cisco's once-soaring shares allowed it to complete several multibillion-dollar acquisitions through stock swaps in the late 1990s, its acquisition activity now tends to be much smaller in dollar value and more narrowly targeted. Along with the Hammerhead deal, Cisco also announced Wednesday it is buying Navarro Networks of Plano, Texas, which develops high-speed chips for ethernet switches, for $85 million. As with Hammerhead, Cisco already owned a minority interest in Navarro, reflecting a company strategy of helping launch start-ups it can later acquire if they successfully develop products. Cisco said it expects to take a charge of up to 2 cents a share against earnings this year related to the purchases. Craig Griffin, Cisco's director of business development, said Cisco will incorporate the Hammerhead software into switching devices that deliver Internet protocol services to cable modem subscribers and to businesses using dedicated data lines. Griffin said Hammerhead's chief executive, Eddie Sullivan, and the rest of the company's employees will join Cisco's ``network edge and aggregation routing group'' at its Chelmsford campus. Charles River, a leading backer of area telecom start-ups, had no comment on how much it had invested in Hammerhead or what return it made on the Cisco purchase. Lucent spokesman William T. Price said Lucent's sale of the network software unit was part of its ongoing reassessment of the company, which has cut more than 50,000 jobs in the last 18 months. ``It's just not an area where we were going to be able to invest our resources going forward,'' Price said. But he said the deal includes a provision for Lucent to continue buying software systems from the unit. Price said the deal will have no ``material'' impact on Lucent sales or earnings, but he declined to disclose the financial terms. About 40 of the unit's 150 employees are in Marlborough, with the rest scattered around US and global locations. The unit's corporate history dates back to Stratus Technologies, which was bought by Ascend Communications in 1998, partially folded into Ascend for telecom switches, then spun back out in 1999 as a maker of ultra-reliable computing systems. Stratus last year reached a deal with Lucent allowing it to reenter the telecom market. Price said more than 30 wireline and wireless phone companies around the world have bought 400 of the network platforms from Lucent in recent years. Cisco shares dropped 95 cents to $13.70 in Nasdaq trading Wednesday. Lucent fell 6 cents to $4.54 on the New York Stock Exchange. Peter J. Howe can be reached at howe(at)globe.com. 
