Students at the Tongji University in Shanghai, China, will soon be able to earn an MBA from the University of Texas at Arlington without ever leaving China. UT-Arlington is the only school in Texas and one of about a dozen universities nationwide selected by China to offer the executive master's of business administration degree. Tongji officials were in Arlington on Wednesday to work out the details before professors from UT-Arlington travel to China to teach this fall. About 65 students will begin the program, which will take about a year to 18 months to complete. As many as 12 professors from Arlington will teach 10-day intensive courses in Shanghai and then return to the United States, where they'll continue to communicate with students through e-mail. ``We'll be promoting UTA's brand name abroad,'' said Dan Himarios, business college dean. He visited China in March to get approval for the program. ``Our faculty will be exposed to a different culture and economy that is growing by leaps and bounds.'' About 41,000 students attend Tongji University, with about 4,000 in the business school. Half of those are graduate students. Founded in 1907, Tongji is considered a leading institution affiliated with the government's education ministry, the visiting administrators said. The executive MBA program caters to students who are already pursuing their careers rather than students just out of undergraduate school. Participants will pay about the same as they would at UT-Arlington without the cost of coming to the United States, Himarios said. Growth in the Chinese economy and the liberation of markets has created a demand for MBAs, the Chinese administrators said. ``Things are happening so fast in China, and the government only approved the MBAs 10 years ago,'' You Jianxin, Tongji's dean of economics and management, said through an interpreter. ``We have a lot to learn from the outside.'' Although MBA programs are common at major U.S. universities, only 50 Chinese institutions offer them, said Sunny Nadolsky of the China Education Network, which is assisting the partnership between UT-Arlington and China. UT-Arlington was selected for the program because of its reputation and resources, Nadolsky said. Its business school is accredited by the International Association of Management Education in St. Louis. About a third of the nation's 1,000 business schools are accredited by the agency, university officials said. Eventually, UT-Arlington officials hope to send students to China to study for two weeks, Nadolsky said. As China grows, the need for highly skilled administrators to head international corporations will grow as well, said Dong Qi, Tongji University director. That will lead to more relationships among Chinese and U.S. universities. ``As China opens more and more, the universities will open their doors wider,'' he said. (ONLINE: For more about UT-Arlington, go to www.uta.edu, Tongji University, go to www.tongji.edu.cn) (Visit the Star-Telegram's online services on the World Wide Web: www.star-telegram.com) nn 
