Jean-Marie Le Pen paced around a French flag on Thursday night, hammering home the themes that have anchored his campaign: attacks on the European Union, the pitfalls of immigration and, particularly, corruption among the ruling elite. The supporters who were there roared with him on cue, and waved more French flags with energy. But in this Mediterranean port city that has long been a Le Pen stronghold, the 7,000-seat sports stadium that he had chosen for his final rally before Sunday's decisive presidential vote was only half full, even though he delayed his speech to allow more time for his backers to arrive. Over the years, Le Pen told the faithful on Thursday night, France has given billions in aid to Africa, but 20 percent of it has somehow been detoured into Swiss bank accounts. Then there was the matter of kickbacks on government contracts that the various political parties actually divvied up among themselves. ``They sat down, and this one got a piece of it, and that one got a piece of it; everybody got a piece of it, except us,'' Le Pen said to approval. Although polls suggest that President Jacques Chirac will beat Le Pen in a landslide, Le Pen continued his efforts to refashion his image from an immigrant-basher to a champion of the people _ an outsider fighting the insulated, self-serving governing establishment. His aides readily acknowledge that they have tried to create a new, voter-friendly version of Le Pen this year. The expletives, insults and gibes that used to pepper his speeches are gone. But the former paratrooper remains a colorful speaker, prone to pulling faces and indulging in exaggerated gestures and outrage. In the last 10 days, since his surprise defeat of Prime Minister Lionel Jospin in the first round of presidential voting, Le Pen has been on the attack several times, while skirting the wildly inaccurate or racist statements of his past. On Thursday night, he poured his anger out on teachers who allowed their students to take part in the dozens of rallies that have been organized to protest his candidacy. ``These men and women whose task is the moral and civic education of our children had the abominable idea of sending them on a mission of hate and vengeance,'' he said. ``These are Soviet activities.'' But as usual, he reserved his most stinging words for Chirac, a longtime enemy. Chirac, he said, was running for president just so he could keep at bay all the investigative magistrates who want to talk to him about allegations of corruption. (French presidents are immune from prosecution except for treason.) ``Now it is up to the French people to give this wheeler-dealer a decisive and historic lesson,'' he said. In recent days, Le Pen has also advanced a convoluted theory that Chirac actually conspired to promote Le Pen's candidacy in the first round so as not to face the Socialist Jospin in the second round. He maintains that the last-minute exit of a minor candidate was engineered by Chirac to boost Le Pen's score. The theory seems clearly intended to keep Jospin's supporters from voting for Chirac, as Socialist leaders have called on them to do. Thursday night's rally was only Le Pen's second public appearance since the first round on April 21. Campaign officials say security is an issue in staying off the streets. There is ``no need,'' said one, ``for Le Pen to have to endure tomatoes being thrown at him.'' But Le Pen has hardly been in the shadows. Assured equal time on the airwaves by campaign laws, he has concentrated on radio and television interviews, often overwhelming journalists with a meandering mix of denunciation and bravado. He rarely speaks with any detail of his campaign platform, which includes ending immigration, outlawing abortion, giving the French priority for jobs and housing and increasing subsidies for large families. The French media have done little to hide its horror at his presence in the race. In addition to negative editorials, the news pages have been full of anti-Le Pen headlines and articles. Groups and individuals that had never meddled in elections spoke out against Le Pen, including a Catholic cardinal and the soccer star Zinedine Zidane, who is France's equivalent of Michael Jordan. Le Pen, who often refers to himself in the third person, never misses an opportunity to paint himself as a victim. ``Nobody supports Le Pen but the people,'' he told a radio station. ``The people are with Le Pen as long as they are informed.'' 
