Hundreds of American and British forces are hunting for al-Qaida holdouts in Afghanistan, although two senior Afghan commanders whose troops also joined six raids in the past three weeks said only two suspects had been detained and none killed so far. As hundreds more coalition troops have been sent into the rolling hills and craggy mountains of eastern Afghanistan, an Afghan intelligence official said that Osama bin Laden himself had been spotted twice in recent weeks in Waziristan, just over the border in the tribal areas of Pakistan. In Washington, Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld discounted such reports. ``I do not know, in direct answer to your question, of any intelligence that I would personally say is actionable with respect to very senior people at the moment,'' he said. Indeed, intelligence seems spotty and unreliable, according to the senior Afghan commanders, who noted that the raids over the past three weeks have yielded only a trove of weapons and ammunition, and no dead Qaida soldiers. ``When we get there, they are gone,'' said one of the commanders, who spoke on condition of anonymity, saying he did not want to offend his American colleagues. The White House has repeatedly insisted that the war against terrorism will require patience, and the experience of recent months certainly proves it. ``The situation in Afghanistan is far from over,'' Rumsfeld noted again on Wednesday. ``There is no question that in the country and over the border, there still are a nontrivial number of those folks that would very much like to take back the country and that would very much like to attack coalition forces.'' In Washington, senior military officials said on Wednesday that American helicopters have ferried hundreds of troops into a mountain range south of the Shah-e-Kot Valley, where in March the coalition staged the largest ground action in the seven-month war. The allied fighters number about 800, including about 100 Americans, mainly special forces and soldiers from the 101st Airborne Division, as well as Canadian, Australian and British troops. Their mission here, as in other parts of eastern Afghanistan in recent weeks, has been to clear caves, valleys and mountain ridges, and kill or capture Taliban or Qaida fighters they encounter. In incidents separate from this operation, American and Australian troops killed four suspected Taliban or Qaida fighters along the Afghan frontier this week, military officials said. About 1,000 of the 1,700 British Royal Marines recently sent to Afghanistan are conducting search operations in the southeast, and about 500 British troops have joined the coalition forces in this area, a senior American military official said. Afghan soldiers bivouacked at the Sahara Bagh post in Khost say that operations involving hundreds of soldiers have become commonplace in recent weeks, especially with the arrival in April of the British. ``In Mustalbar, we had about 300 British soldiers and 60 Americans along with 500 of my own soldiers,'' said an Afghan commander. He named villages in the region around Khost where raids have occurred: Mustalbar, Mandozai, Soroobi, Zani Khel, Terizai, Nariz, Dangi, Ghlang, Tani. ``In different places we've done things different ways,'' he said, ``but we never come across many al-Qaida. They have no strong base. They are spread out. Anyway, during the day they may be in one place and during the night in another.'' Pentagon officials say that at any given time, there are more than a dozen specific missions. Senior American officers discounted any impending large-scale attack like the one in March, largely because Qaida and Taliban fighters have dispersed and are being tracked down in smaller numbers. ``What you're seeing are pieces and subpieces of Mountain Lion, and you'll see it for weeks to come,'' said one American military official, using the operation's military name. Although the remaining Qaida forces are often said to be massed around Khost, the area is huge, cavernous and concealing. It also spans two countries, leading into the tribal areas of Pakistan, where there is broad sympathy for radical Islam. An intelligence official in the Afghan government said recently that bin Laden had been seen in Waziristan, a nearby tribal area of Pakistan. Before that, bin Laden was spotted in the Tirah Valley of the tribal area, the same official said. The coalition has begun to mount raids on both sides of the border. Within the past week or so, a small number of American special forces, mainly communications and intelligence specialists, have begun operating with Pakistani troops in the tribal zone. This arrangement has both allied and Pakistani forces to target Qaida fighters traveling back and forth across the border. But the presence of even a few Americans is anathema to many of the people who live in this storied backwater of the Pakistani northwest. (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.) On Wednesday, before dawn, a rocket was fired at a vocational training school housing American forces in the tribal town of Miram Shah, Pakistani officials said. The projectile missed its presumed target, hitting an empty building. No one was hurt. It was not known who fired the rocket, but searchers turned up pamphlets from a previously unknown group called Mujahedeen of North Waziristan, where Miram Shah is located. The flyers warned residents to ``wake up'' because Muslim hypocrites had ``challenged Islamic honor'' with the American presence. While Qaida soldiers may be hard to locate, former members of the Taliban militia are not. Many have simply changed turbans _ and some have not even bothered to do that. Many are retread soldiers, now among the 600 specially trained in Khost by the Americans and paid $200 a month. These troops were provided to the American military by a Khost warlord, Kamal Khan Zadran, who says he still has 3,500 men in reserve. ``I like helping the Americans,'' he said. Warlords make for strange bedfellows, and the American military has climbed under the covers with a good many of them. Expediency prevails during wartime. Zadran is the younger brother of the more notorious Padsha Khan Zadran, who, adding to a colorful history of misdeeds, on Saturday ordered his soldiers to fire hundreds of rockets into the city of Gardez, killing at least 25 people, mostly women and children. On Tuesday night, Afghanistan's American-backed interim chairman, Hamid Karzai, called the older Zadran a ``murderer'' and promised to bring him to justice. Both of the Zadrans have received American support, as have the warlords Abdul Rashid Dostum and Ostad Atta Muhammad, whose soldiers clashed on Tuesday and on Wednesday in the north. At least six people were killed. Warlords are now at each other's throats in several provinces. Karzai is trying to settle some of these disputes by appointing new provincial governors. On Wednesday, in Khost, where gunmen loyal to two rival police chiefs engaged in a murderous shootout last week, an unlikely strongman arrived to assume the governorship. ``God help me,'' said the new arrival, Hakim Taniwal, a slight, bespectacled, 56-year-old sociology professor who until February had been living in Australia. Two former classmates now associated with the government prevailed upon Taniwal to accept a challenge, bringing good government to the Afghan badlands. ``I was reluctant to take the job,'' he said, moments after first entering the Governor's Guest House, his new home. ``But this is a new Afghanistan. Many people from Khost came to me and requested that I try. When I met them, and heard how much they needed me, I decided that maybe I should, oh, what is the word?'' Suddenly, his English had failed him. Finally, someone whispered the answer. ``Oh yes,'' he said. ``I decided that maybe I should dare.'' 
