A head of lettuce falls off a produce truck barreling down a dark, isolated road. Moments later, it lodges under the front tire of an ill-fated bicyclist. A tourist snaps a photograph of a homeless man having a seizure and unwittingly reunites an EMS technician at the scene with his former love, who develops the photos. These are the chance moments that make up writer-director Laurent Firode's feature film debut, a movie that sounds more delightful than it should. Firode, who has made a number of short films, has based his story on the chaos theory. The film's French name, ``Le Battement d'Ailes du Papillon'' (''The Beating of the Butterfly's Wings'') comes from the meteorological notion that a butterfly fluttering over Texas can set off a tidal wave in the Pacific Ocean. As seemingly unrelated characters make random decisions _ some with reckless abandon and others with agonizing deliberation _ their choices play havoc with other people's lives. At the heart of the story is ``Amelie's'' winsome Audrey Tautou. She is Irene, a sad-faced salesclerk working in a bleak appliance store. Riding the subway to work one day, Irene sits across from a chatty woman who regales her with a daily horoscope promising love with a soulmate. From the moment Irene steps out of the car, however, it seems as if her day will be anything but charmed. Made a year or so before ``Amelie,'' this movie feels like nothing more than a mediocre project whose stateside distributors decided to cash in on Tautou's success. ``Amelie'' fans also will be disappointed to learn that Tautou disappears for more than a half hour after the movie's opening scene, and her absence is palpable. ``Happenstance'' wilts without Tautou's lively face and bottomless eyes. Other recurring characters include a philandering husband (Eric Savin) too weak to choose between his wife and his mistress. Paralyzed by fear, he lets the fate of a thrown pebble decide his own future. And then there's the soulful waiter (played by Faudel, an Algerian pop star) who learns a lesson about love from a cruel security guard. These and other random stories offer occasional amusement and diversion, but ``Happenstance'' often feels like a patchwork of characters and episodes without any kind of cosmic coherence. Although the plot reveals their connection, only Irene's story truly works. Her fate ultimately is revealed in the witty composition of the movie's enchanting final scene. But for a film about the capriciousness of fate, ``Happenstance'' needs many more such inspired bits of whimsy. Alison Macor writes for the Austin American-Statesman. Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
