In a dramatic resolution to a five-month-long standoff, Israeli tanks and armored vehicles pulled away from Yasser Arafat's battered headquarters late Wednesday night, leaving the Palestinian leader free to travel. A U.S.-brokered deal led to the breakthrough. But violence flared on another front. An intense gun battle erupted outside the besieged Church of the Nativity early Thursday and fire raged for about an hour inside the church compound, though Israelis and Palestinians offered conflicting accounts of what happened and why. There were no immediate reports of casualties, though the fresh fighting and recriminations threatened to deal a blow to what in recent days had been progress in negotiating an end to the standoff at the 4th-century basilica in Bethlehem. In Ramallah, as the last tanks pulled away early Thursday morning, cheers erupted inside Arafat's offices, according to several people who were with him, and many of the some 300 aides and others with Arafat spilled out onto the dusty grounds of the compound. ``We chanted for the leader ...We chanted for Palestine,'' said Mohammed Hasan, 24, a member of Arafat's special guard. For several hours, a crowd massed, occasionally chanting and singing. Children reunited with fathers, wives with husbands. Israeli troops surround the Ramallah complex during fighting last December and attacked the compound on March 29, keeping Arafat confined to several rooms. In the place of Israeli armor, Arafat's people _ government officials, security, foreign supporters _ roamed the breadth of the compound, littered with smashed cars. One group set a bonfire. And they talked about what lay ahead. ``Our struggle starts from now,'' said Arafat aide Zafir Mobaui, 44. ``It's a different struggle. . . . He's ready to negotiate.'' But Palestinian officials accused Israeli forces of trying to storm the Church of the Nativity, built over the traditional birthplace of Jesus. Israeli troops have surrounded the church since April 2, when more than 200 Palestinians, including gunmen, took refuge there as Israeli troops advanced as part of a wider West Bank offensive. Israeli officials denied that any move was made against the church. Dore Gold, an adviser to Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, accused Palestinian fighters inside the church of starting the fire, which erupted in a building about 50 feet from the basilica itself. ``The fire that broke out had nothing to do with an Israeli operation,'' he told CNN. An enraged Arafat held an impromptu news conference early Thursday in his Ramallah compound to denounce the Bethlehem fighting. ``How could the world possibly be silent about this atrocious crime?'' he told reporters. ``I don't care if this room I'm sitting in blows up. What concerns me is what is happening at the Church of the Nativity. This is a crime that cannot be forgiven,'' he said, his voice shaking. Speaking in Arabic, he said of the Israelis: ``They are Nazis. They are terrorists. They are racists.'' The harsh rhetoric came juts hours after Israeli troops pulled out of Ramallah. In return, the Palestinian leader sent six wanted men who were holed up in his compound to a prison in the nearby town of Jericho, to be guarded by U.S. and British wardens. Four of the six were convicted in a Palestinian trial at Arafat's compound last week of the killing of Israeli Cabinet minister Rehavam Zeevi in October. Two others are the leader of the radical faction that claimed responsibility for the assassination and an alleged organizer of an Iranian arms shipment intercepted by the Israeli navy in January. The deal, brokered by the Bush administration, was to allow Arafat to travel freely through the West Bank and beyond. The Palestinian leader, who had been accustomed to trotting the globe to visit heads of state and other dignitaries, will not travel abroad until he first tends to business at home, an aide said. Again raising the prospect that Israel may seek to exile Arafat, Sharon said there was no guarantee that the Palestinian leader would be able to return if he leaves the region. ``We're not asked to give any guarantees, we're not going to give any guarantees, because usually in the past when he left, it was always a sign for a wave of terror,'' Sharon said during an interview Wednesday with ABC. Arafat's Palestinian Authority, which controls Palestinian cities in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, is in shambles, after an Israeli army incursion last month that left his headquarters badly damaged and killed Palestinian militants and civilians. The April offensive came after a wave of suicide bombings that left dozens of Israelis dead. Bush, under pressure from Saudi Arabia and other moderate Arab states which have complained of a U.S. bias toward Israel, pushed a reluctant Israeli government to accept the deal to spring Arafat. Arafat's release was considered a major hurdle toward getting the two sides back to the negotiating table. But the Bethlehem fighting placed the modest diplomatic gains in jeopardy. Some Palestinian officials vowed to continue the violent uprising against what they regard as Israeli occupation of their land. ``Our people are defending themselves ... we will continue the struggle and the intifada will not be stopped,'' said Hatem Abdel Khader, an official in Arafat's Fatah faction. Flames leaped out of three rooms in the Orthodox Christian and Franciscan section of the large compound of the Bethlehem church. The Associated Press reported that three people inside the church were slightly burned trying to put out the fire. Television pictures showed smoke and the flashes from gunfire in what sounded like an intense, prolong exchange between Israeli troops and Palestinian gunmen. In fighting Wednesday in the Gaza Strip, a roadside bomb blew up near an Israeli tank, which invited return fire toward a Palestinian neighborhood, killing a 2-year-old girl and a deaf man in their homes. Later, Israeli tanks drove into the Rafah refugee camp and two more Palestinians were killed in an exchange of fire. Meanwhile, U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan abandoned efforts Wednesday to send a fact-finding mission to the Jenin refugee camp after Israel first gave its consent but later withdrew permission for the U.N. team to come to Israel. In a letter to the U.N. Security Council, Annan said the team would be disbanded on Thursday. Robert W. Gee can be contacted at bgee(at)stateman.com. ENDIT Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
