Two years ago, Elizabeth Farmer threw out her cats' litter box. After months of hard work and occasional accidents, Samson, her 9-year-old white Persian, and Gigi, her 11-year-old Himalayan, had finally learned to use the toilet. Farmer, a flight attendant, decided to potty train Samson and Gigi because she was sick of the litter box, she says. Now the cats have taken over the spare bathroom in her Hollywood, Fla., home. Farmer purchased a kitty toilet training kit from catgift.com, a Web site that sells novelty items for cats. She loosely followed the book that came with the kit, ``How to Toilet Train Your Cat: 21 Days to a Litter-Free Home,'' by Paul Kunkel, and trained Samson first, she says. Farmer turned off the water which ran to her spare toilet and covered the porcelain bowl with ``very thick'' plastic wrap. She then positioned a plastic kitty toilet training seat over the potty and filled it with litter. Farmer was skeptical at first, but ``Samson just jumped right up there,'' she says. The cat quickly adjusted to the toilet and was rewarded for each successful turn. ``Every time he'd do it, I gave him tuna,'' she says. Next, Farmer cut a hole in the plastic wrap to force Samson to balance on the seat. Every day for several weeks, she made the hole larger and eventually, got rid of the plastic wrap and litter altogether. Ultimately, Samson was sitting triumphantly on the toilet seat himself, she says. After several difficult months, Farmer successfully trained Gigi, the older cat. ``Gigi's not quite as smart, so it took a little bit of training,'' she says. Nonetheless, both cats have grown accustomed to -- and quite fond of -- the toilet, she says. ``Sometimes they make a mess,'' says Farmer, ``but I just go in there every so often with my rubber gloves on and clean it up.'' Farmer credits Laura Stein, who runs catgift.com, with helping her through the grueling process. Laura and her husband, Buddy, developed the Web site at their home in Pompano Beach, Fla. The couple, proud parents to a toilet-trained kitty named Jack, started the site five years ago. Laura runs it during the day, taking orders and shipping them, while Buddy works as a computer programmer. ``What is the only thing that people don't like about cats? The litter box,'' says Laura. Therein the Steins spotted a business opportunity. And when 35 million American households have cats and eight out of every 10 of them use a litter box, according to the American Pet Products Manufacturers Association, the possibilities -- and potential for profit -- are excellent. Cat owners who want to potty train have access to not one instructional book, but two. Dr. Eric Brotman, a Los Angeles psychologist, published his own book, ``How to Toilet Train Your Cat,'' in 2000. The book documents the training of Brotman's 1 1/2 year-old cat, Mango, and provides step-by-step instructions similar to Kunkel's. Brotman said the main difference between his and Kunkel's book is that Brotman's book is about a specific cat. The book, which has sold about 500 copies, according to Brotman, shows Mango's progress through a series of photographs. The Steins assemble the kits -- which include Kunkel's instructional book and a plastic kitty toilet training seat -- at their home and sell them for $24.95. Resourceful consumers, however, can find the book on the Internet at Amazon.com for $6.95 and buy the seat separately at pet stores for $8 to $12. (Brotman recommends using a roasting pan -- fastened to the toilet bowl with duct tape -- instead of the plastic toilet training seat, dismissing the plastic seats as flimsy.) The couple came up with the idea for the kit after Buddy spotted Kunkel's book on the Internet, says Laura, who subsequently discovered the plastic seats at Vo-Toys, a pet product distributor in New Jersey. An employee at Vo-Toys would not reveal the manufacturer of the seat -- officially named ``the kitty wiz transfer system'' -- but a patent is pending. Since 1997, catgift.com has sold about 10,000 kits, says Laura. ``It's a best seller, she says, ``along with 'Video Catnip,' `` a nature video for cats. The kit has a low return rate of 3 percent, she says. And Universal Picture's movie ``Meet the Parents'' boosted sales considerably after its release in 2000. The film featured a pet cat, Jinx, who was proficient in toilet use. ``We had a lovely little spike in business after the movie,'' she says. Laura Stein insists that, with a lot of ``positive reinforcement,'' owners can train any cat between 6 months and 11 years old. And while she admits the process often takes more than 21 days, ``with a lot of patience, they'll do it.'' Stein also suggests that the owners of chubbier felines secure their toilet seats with duct tape. Brotman says teaching a feline to flush ``is one of the easiest behaviors to teach a cat.'' He suggests attaching a plush toy by a string to the lever, prompting the cat to grab it and accidentally force the toilet to flush. But Farmer is satisfied that her cats have learned to use the potty, especially at their advanced ages. ``I didn't even try to get them to flush,'' she says. ``Toilet training was hard enough.'' (EDITORS: There is no charge for use of this story, but please send a tearsheet to Professor Stephen D. Isaacs, Columbia News Service, Graduate School of Journalism, Columbia University, 2950 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10027.) 
