Texas prison escapee Michael Anthony Rodriguez will have to fight for his life after a jury Thursday convicted him of capital murder for the death of Irving police officer Aubrey Hawkins. Rodriguez, 39, showed little emotion when the jury announced its decision after about an hour of deliberations. Jurors will return Monday for the punishment phase of the trial, when they will be asked to decide whether Rodriguez should be sentenced to death or life in prison. He is the third of six prison escapees from the Connally Unit in South Texas to go on trial for the Dec. 24, 2000, fatal shooting of Hawkins during a robbery at Oshman's SuperSports USA in Irving. Donald Keith Newbury and group leader George Rivas were sentenced to death in January and August 2001, respectively. Trials are pending for three other escapees _ Joseph Garcia, Randy Halprin and Patrick Murphy Jr. A seventh escapee, Larry Harper, killed himself during a standoff after police tracked the escapees to Colorado. Rodriguez was serving life in prison for ordering the contract killing of his wife when he escaped. During closing arguments Thursday, the prosecution and defense teams appeared to be talking about different defendants. According to the defense, Rodriguez was a pawn in Rivas' robbery scheme that took a dreadful turn with the killing of a police officer. Rodriguez sat impassively as his attorneys described him as a remorseful man who admitted helping to plan the Oshman's robbery while in prison. ``This is a flawed man who should be held accountable for what he did, but not what he didn't do and not what he was talked into doing by George Rivas,'' said John Niland, one of the attorneys for the defense. After he was recaptured, Rodriguez wrote to his brother that killing the police officer was a terrible tragedy, Niland said. Rodriguez also wrote that if the timing of the robbery had been better, they could have saved the life of an innocent man, Niland told the jury. The one round that Rodriguez fired lodged in the dashboard of the police car and did not hit Hawkins, Niland said. ``The most serious charges, like the charges of capital murder, are reserved for people like George Rivas,'' Niland said. But prosecutor Toby Shook described Rodriguez as a coldblooded killer who helped plan an elaborate robbery. Rodriguez could have run away or surrendered when the seven escapees became aware that a police officer was on his way to Oshman's, Shook said. But Rodriguez chose to side with the escapees and ambush Hawkins, Shook said. ``This was not a panic situation. This was a feeding frenzy,'' he said. Shook said Rodriguez was only remorseful that he was caught. The prosecutor also referred to a letter Rodriguez wrote to his brother from jail that said: ``I shot once, but I don't know if it did any good.'' Shook noted that the escapees had brought a police scanner to Oshman's so they could monitor Irving Police Department frequencies. The escapees were waiting for the officer when he approached the store, Shook said. They expected trouble, he said. Shook said Rodriguez pulled Hawkins' bullet-riddled body from his patrol car so Rivas could run over him with a vehicle. ``They wanted him dead,'' Shook said. ``He was in the way. They wanted to get away with their guns and their money.'' (Visit the Star-Telegram's online services on the World Wide Web: www.star-telegram.com) nn 
