He's tight-lipped. Otherwise, he'd be a natural for talk shows. His episode could be titled: ``I Avoid Sex Because It Makes Me Hungry.'' His new wife could talk about the horrible frustration. She'd weep talking about their honeymoon in Paris. Shane went out alone a lot. And she caught him making furtive phone calls. Jerry Springer surely would ask why she married him. She must've known he wasn't normal. I'd love to hear the answer. I'd love to get answers to all kinds of questions concerning ``Trouble Every Day,'' the enigmatic new film from French director Claire Denis. At least half the film could be described as a chronicle of one of the strangest honeymoons ever. And the other half? It's about a married couple, too: a French doctor and his wife. She suffers from the same malady as Shane, only she doesn't sublimate her desires. She has all the sex she wants _ her husband locks her in the house, and she breaks out every day and goes on the prowl. The film switches back and forth between the two stories. Their trajectories eventually intersect. Shane (Vincent Gallo) once did research with the doctor and his wife in Guyana. He thinks the doctor can cure him. Obviously, he can't. Otherwise, he wouldn't have to go out every night looking for his wife, Core (Beatrice Dalle, who starred in ``Betty Blue'') and cleaning up her messes. The movie begins with one of Core's forays. She's out on the road, flagging down a trucker. Her husband, Leo, finds her later in the woods, covered with blood, not far from the trucker's partially nude, partially eaten body. ``Trouble Every Day'' could be called a biomedical horror story, but if that makes you think of David Cronenberg, think again. This is a biomedical horror story in the melancholic European mode. Imagine Bernardo Bertolucci making a vampire movie with a scientific premise and you've got the idea. Leo was a researcher drummed out of the scientific community for delving into matters his colleagues considered unfitting. There is a suggestion his research is responsible for the illness afflicting Shane and Core. You can't say this is a cautionary tale about biomedical advances, however. Nor can you say it is an indictment of greed, though that is hinted at. The movie may be about sexual transgression, but it just as easily could not be. Denis is an extraordinarily reticent storyteller. She offers little background, and she parcels out the story in slivers. Her characters are as withholding as she is. Like a speaker who mumbles, she has a style that will have you on the edge of your seat. At least, you will be intensely attentive in the beginning. Eventually, however, you might question whether this haunting tale sufficiently rewards the effort it takes to piece it together. It is possible for a storyteller to withhold too much, and Denis has a toe over the line. She holds back until near the end. Core is a monster _ no two ways about it _ and Shane is fighting becoming one. But when each of them is finally shown having sex, their monstrousness is revealed, and it seems oddly indistinguishable from extreme sexual avidity. Core in particular exudes animal-like passion as she kisses and caresses the wounds she inflicts. Only in these two scenes does Denis not hold back, but while watching them you may wish that she had. ``Trouble Every Day'' Starring: Vincent Gallo, Tricia Vessey, Beatrice Dalle Director: Claire Denis Screenwriter: Denis and Jean-Pol Fargeau Unrated: Contains graphic gore and violence, nudity and sex scenes Running time: 89 minutes Grade: B XXX END OF STORY 
