c.2001 New York Times News Service 	For FRIDAY PMs 	Here are the top news stories from The New York Times News Service for PMs of Friday, May 3. 	The PMs news desk, 212-556-1927, opens at 7 a.m. Eastern Time. To get story repeats before this hour call 212-621-1595 for reruns on AP DataFeatures or 214-980-8305 or 8367 for repeats on UPI DataNews. 	NYT News Service 	INTERNATIONAL _ (Moved in ``i'' category) 	FRANCE-POLITICS-MOOD (Schirmeck, France) _ This town in the forest is a place of dark secrets _ some new, some old and some underscoring the paradoxes that swirl around the strength here of Jean-Marie Le Pen, the extreme right-wing insurgent who will challenge President Jacques Chirac in a run-off vote for the presidency of France on Sunday. The view of some people that there is something deep in the French spirit that has helped fuel Le Pen's rise _ seems to reinforce suggestions that the rightist politician's influence in an arc of France stretching from the Mediterranean, through eastern France and onto the rust belt of the north-east, may be more nuanced and less easily predicted than was thought. By Alan Cowell. 	With photo NYT 8 and map. 	AFGHAN (Bagram Air Base, Afghanistan) _ More details emerge on the latest big operation in Afghanistan, though there has been no fighting or serious contact with the enemy. The Royal Marines spokesman, Lt. Col. Paul Harradine said American conventional troops, special forces and aircraft, including Apache attack helicopters and A-10 Warthog jets, were involved but declined to give specific details of their role. By Carlotta Gall. 	NATIONAL _ GENERAL (Moved in ``a'' category) 	WTC-SITE (New York) _ It is nearly done. Through the blur of unnoticed seasons, in an effort without parallel, 1.6 million tons of material from the collapse of the World Trade Center have been dismantled, examined and carted off to be examined again. That fire-spitting, hellish mound has been reduced, one truckload at a time, to a few piles on a bedrock-bottomed pit. The curtain is about to fall on this mournful ballet. The last of what was the World Trade Center will be carted away by the end of the month, creating profound physical and psychological shifts regarding a singular calamity. The recovery operation that began in Lower Manhattan on Sept. 11 will end, and a new phase, the rebuilding phase, will begin. By Dan Barry. 	With photos NYT 61,62 	PRIEST-ABUSE-POLL (Undated) _ American Roman Catholics say that priests who sexually abuse children and teen-agers should be barred from participating in parish life, and that any accusations of abuse should be investigated by local law enforcement rather than the church, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll. By Robin Toner. 	With graphic and sidebars. 	See also PRIEST-ARREST, POPE-CONFESSION. 	HIGH-PLAINS-DROUGHT (Lamar, Colo.) _ The soil is on the move again in the High Plains, drifting over a swath of the American midsection calcified by drought. For some, it is reviving memories of a time when the world seemed to blow away. There have been serious droughts here before, some as fierce as the dry spells of the 1930s. But this drought is among the worst, and in some counties, particularly in the northern plains, it is the most devastating in more than a century. By Timothy Egan. 	With photo NYT 64 	SCI-OZONE-ANTARCTICA (Undated) _ Scientists now believe that the hole in the ozone layer may be responsible for cooling, not warming, in Antarctica. By Kenneth Chang. 	WASHINGTON _ (Moved in ``w'' category) 	RIDGE-SECURITY (Washington) _ He was the ``true patriot, a trusted friend'' chosen by President Bush nine days after Sept. 11 to create a grand strategy for deterring future terrorist attacks. But instead of becoming the pre-eminent leader of domestic security, Tom Ridge has become a White House adviser with a shrinking mandate, forbidden by the president to testify before Congress to explain his strategy, overruled in White House councils and overshadowed by powerful cabinet members reluctant to cede their turf or their share of the limelight. By Elizabeth Becker. 	With photos, NYT34,36. 	BUSINESS DAY _ (Moved in ``f'' category) 	DELL-NORRIS-COLUMN (New York) _ Gambling on your own stock price is not something companies often advertise they are doing. But for some companies, particularly technology companies, it was a popular strategy in the 1990s. Now it is coming back to haunt them. In Dell Computer's last fiscal year, ended Feb. 1, the company bought back 69 million shares for $3 billion. Had Dell simply called its broker and placed a buy order for its stock, the most it could have paid was $31.32 a share, 28 percent less. By Floyd Norris. 	With graphic 	KMART-INQUIRE (Undated) _ Kmart is beginning an investigation into the activities of some of its former top executives. By Constance L. Hays. 	PITT-SEC (Washington) _ Harvey Pitt was insistent. The way companies account for the stock options they give to executives, he told a Senate panel in late March, had absolutely nothing to do with the collapse of Enron, whatever the conventional wisdom held. Two weeks later, Pitt, the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, delivered a speech at a law school in Chicago outlining a set of proposals to eliminate abuses associated with stock options. The plan was more modest than the one he had dismissed; still, he acknowledged that ``over the last few months, institutions and professions have been rocked by the taint of misconduct and greed.'' By Steven Labaton. 	With photo NYT 73 and graphic. 	ANDERSEN-ENRON (Undated) _ In the end, the scuttling of talks aimed at settling securities lawsuits against Arthur Andersen by Enron stakeholders came down to a decision by Wall Street to insist on its innocence in Enron's collapse. Several big banks are in the curious position of being both plaintiffs and defendants in the litigation, which is seeking billions of dollars for the losses of investors, lenders and employees. The banks are plaintiffs by virtue of being creditors of the fallen energy firm. They are defendants because shareholders' lawyers say the banks' financial dealings helped cause Enron's failure. By Jonathan D. Glater. 	CHASE-OUTLOOK (Undated) _ J.P. Morgan Chase's ability to recover from a slew of recent losses rests largely in the hands of two men, who are both looking to restore tarnished reputations and perhaps eyeing the top job someday. Geoffrey Boisi, now the co-head of J.P. Morgan's investment bank, left Goldman, Sachs &AMP; Company more than a decade ago after executives say he lost out in a bid to lead that firm. David Coulter, who runs J.P. Morgan's consumer business, was chief executive of Bank of America until it merged with NationsBank, and a power struggle with Hugh McColl sent him out the door in 1997. They are both undertaking critical jobs. By Riva D. Atlas. 	With photos NYT 71,72 	COMMENTARY (Moved in ``k'' category) 	KRISTOF-COLUMN (Undated) _ On the so-called democracy in Pakistan. By Nicholas D. Kristof. 	KRUGMAN-COLUMN (Undated) _ On the dire federal budget shortfall. By Paul Krugman. 	SPORTS (Moved in ``s'' category) 	BKN-ARATON-COLUMN (East Rutherford, N.J.) _ Sports of The Times column on the Nets. By Harvey Araton. 	RAC-DERBY (Louisville, Ky.) _ With a wide-open field Saturday and no real favorite, this is the everyman's Derby, with all comers trying their hand at America's favorite race. By Joe Drape. 	RAC-RHODEN-COLUMN (Louisville, Ky.) _ Sports column: Last year this time, Yvonne Azeff was reveling in the joy of reaching a horse racing mountaintop. As assistant trainer for John Ward, she watched as Monarchos, the Big Gray Horse, won the Kentucky Derby. Eight months later, on January 26th, Azeff's life turned upside down. During training hours at Gulfstream Park, her pony was spooked. The pony reared, Azeff was thrown and pinned under her pony. She suffered massive brain trauma and was in a coma for weeks. By William C. Rhoden. 	ENTERTAINMENT (Moved in ``e'' category) 	FEATURES 	NY-IN-PHOTOS (New York) _ Like many natural beauties, New York is effortlessly photogenic. It has fabulous bones and hardly any bad angles. It looks good in anything: rain, sunshine, blizzards. Its personality comes through in flashes: antic, sloppy, noble, rude. Its bad days are more exciting than good days anywhere else. And its good days are the best, period. Since last September, more photographs of the city have probably been circulating than at any time in its history. Countless new pictures, professional and amateur, have been shot; countless old pictures have been hauled out of storage for scrutiny. Three institutions _ the Jewish Museum, the Museum of the City of New York and the Metropolitan Museum of Art _ have big but very different shows of such material this spring. By Holland Cotter. 	With photos NYT 23,24,25 	PRODUCERS-THEATER-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``The Producers,'' with new actors in the lead roles, is re-reviewed by Ben Brantley. 	With photos NYT 11,12 	MOVIES 	SPIDERMAN-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``Spiderman'': Sam Raimi, director; with Tobey Maguire, Peter Parker, Wilem Dafoe, James Franco, Kirsten Dunst. Reviewed by A.O. Scott. 	With photos NYT 9,10 	MASSEUR-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``The Mystic Masseur'': Ismail Merchant, director; with Aasif Mandvi, Om Puri, Ayesha Dharker, Sanjeev Bhaskar, James Fox, Zhora Segal. Reviewed by Stephen Holden. 	DEUCES-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``Deuces Wild'': Scott Kalvert, director; with Stephen Dorff, Brad Renfro, Fairuza Balk, Vincent Pastore, Frankie Muniz, Balthazar Getty, Norman Reedus, Max Perlich, Drea DeMatteo. Reviewed by Stephen Holden. 	AT-THE-MOVIES (Hollywood) _ News of the silver screen. By Bernard Weinraub. 	HOMEVIDEO (Undated) _ Short items on what's news in home video and short reviews of what's new in home video. By Peter M. Nichols. 	OTHER ENTERTAINMENT 	BABE-BOOK-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``The Emperor's Babe,'' by Bernardine Evaristo (Viking). Reviewed by Richard Eder. Reviewed by Richard Eder. 	TV-GRANT-REVIEW (Undated) _ Sunday on PBS' American Experience: ``Ulysses S. Grant.'' Reviewed by Ron Wertheimer. 	THEATER-NOTES (Undated) _ News of The Great White Way. By Jesse McKinley. 	With photo NYT 50 	ANTIQUES-COLUMN (New York) _ The Antiques Column. By Wendy Moonan. 	With photo NYT 51 	(Editors: All clients receive all budgets, but only full-service clients receive all stories. Please check your level of service to determine which stories you will receive.) 	NYT News Service 
