Just as he did during his racing career, Cigar won big. The two-time Horse of the Year was chosen for induction in the National Museum of Racing and Hall of Fame. Cigar, who won 19 of 33 career starts, was selected Tuesday in his first year on the ballot in nationwide voting by 140 racing journalists and historians. Voting tallies are not announced, but as Hall of Fame spokesman Dick Hamilton put it, ``Cigar got in the way he won some of his races, let's say that.'' Which is to say, without any difficulty. Cigar, chosen as the Contemporary Male Horse, is joined in the Class of 2002 by the late Jack Westrope, trainer Grover ``Bud'' Delp, Serena's Song (Contemporary Female Horse) and Noor (Horse of Yesteryear). Induction ceremonies are Aug. 5 in Saratoga Springs. Westrope, a jockey who was killed in a racing accident 44 years ago, was selected over modern riders Kent Desormeaux and Eddie Maple. Cigar, trained by Bill Mott and owned by the late Allen Paulson, won a record-tying 16 straight races in 1995-96 before finishing second in the Pacific Classic at Del Mar. He shares the consecutive-wins record, and soon a place in the Hall of Fame, with Citation. Cigar spent part of his time training for the Pacific Classic at Saratoga Race Course, where 5,000 turned out before 7 a.m. to watch him work. Cigar took horse racing into the mainstream like no horse since Secretariat, partly because his was a rags-to-riches story of a horse that couldn't win or grass but was dominant on dirt. Cigar, now 12, was selected in his category over Ancient Title and Precisionist. He was retired to stud after the 1996 season, but was infertile and now lives at the Kentucky Horse Park in Lexington. Westrope was a fixture in California racing in the 1940s and 1950s. According to his daughter, Pamela Westrope-Donner, he was friends with other top California riders of the era, including Eddie Arcaro, Johnny Longden and Bill Shoemaker. ``If my dad were here today, he would be thrilled to be in the Hall of Fame with his three friends,'' Westrope-Donner said Tuesday morning from her home in Sherman Oaks, Calif. ``We have wonderful memories of Dad. He had such great hands, hands of iron.'' Westrope-Donner was 15 when her father was killed during the running of the Hollywood Oaks in 1958. His mount, Well Away, threw Westrope, who landed on his back atop the rail. He was 40. ``If you would ask my dad how he would want to die, that would be the way, on the racetrack,'' said Westrope-Donner, who plans to attend the induction ceremony with other family members. ``We are very excited he is going into the Hall.'' Delp, 69, found his fame in racing when he trained Spectacular Bid to victories in the 1979 Kentucky Derby and Preakness. Delp remains active, primarily in Maryland, and said he hopes to get a big season out of handicap horse Include. He said there is a chance he could run Include in the Whitney at Saratoga Race Course two days before his induction. Delp said he was informed of his honor a couple weeks ago, but promised the Hall of Fame he would guard the secret until Tuesday's announcement. ``I've been thinking about this for two weeks,'' Delp said from his home in Ellicott City, Md., near Baltimore. ``I am sure it will be an emotional day, and I try not to be that way. It's not like I want to be a big shot, but you can't be a crybaby. It's hard to believe I'm there. A country boy from Maryland is going to the Hall of Fame.'' Delp got the nod over Mel Stute and the late Sonny Hine. Serena's Song was elected over Dance Smartly and Flawlessly. Noor was chosen over Morvich and Swoon's Song. 
