The term ``event'' is used here because ``game'' would be a cruel stretch of the term. The absence of the Spurs' superstar eliminated the element of contest, numbed the customers, irritated the players and must have sucked the TNT cable ratings down past ``Who Wants to be in a Meth Lab Explosion.'' Everyone was already feeling bad for Duncan, who lost his father Monday night. The event he left in his absence made most everyone feel a little worse. Sure, the 91-79 triumph accomplished what the Sonics wanted: A fifth and final game of the first-round series tomorrow night at the Alamodome. ``It's anybody's game,'' said coach Nate McMillan, who is on the verge of keeping to his word, delivered late in the regular season. ``I told the guys if we get in the playoffs with healthy players, we can win.'' But nobody expected the chance to be delivered via dump truck. A clumsy, corrosive affair marked by five technicals, an ejection and shoving matches in the first and third quarters, the game was so out of sorts the Sonics couldn't even get the blowout aspect right. They allowed the crippled Spurs to hang around enough in the second half that Gary Payton and Desmond Mason had to go 44 minutes each, while the Sonics bench delivered just 10 points. From a competitive as well as aesthetic point of view, there is a single wish: Hurry back, Tim. It sounds weird to say the Sonics almost need Duncan in there. But better to sound weird than to have to watch a repeat of last night. In terms of percentage of his team's offensive production, Duncan is ranked second in the NBA, behind only Boston's Paul Pierce. Watching the first half, one would think his number must be near 100 percent. After a 2-0 lead, the withered Spurs were outscored by about a galaxy. There was a growing temptation to scold the Spurs for appearing not to bring anything to the table. But who could blame them? With a 2-1 series lead, they knew they had a game to give and still move on to face the Lakers on Sunday in the second round. Spurs coach Gregg Popovich wasn't interested in any intimations of cruise control because of Duncan's absence. ``I'm not a psychiatrist,'' he said. ``I just deal with reality. The shots didn't go in.'' The Spurs found a little dignity in the third quarter, outscoring the Sonics 28-19. But it appeared from the outset that since they knew they had nothing to lose, the plan was to lay forearms, elbows and knees upon the Sonics, in order to bait them into fights and possibly ejections. ``Lots of things started happening,'' said McMillan. ``Guys were being held and grabbed, and lots of fouls weren't called. Some of our guys got frustrated and retaliated, going chest-to-chest. ``They played a physical game because they wanted to end it tonight. In the second half, they were trying to get into our heads.'' The plan backfired a little in the third quarter when, missing Duncan as well as David Robinson, and with reserve forward Danny Ferry limited to two minutes after spraining his right wrist in practice, the Spurs lost lumbering, decrepit forward Mark Bryant when he was ejected after a tangle with Mason. McMillan said he thought Bryant kicked at Mason. If film review by the NBA determines that Bryant, who then got into it with Payton, actually threw punches, he would face a mandatory one-game suspension. But the Sonics aren't too concerned with the body count in San Antonio. All they are tracking is that fact that they have split eight games with the Spurs this season, won once in the playoffs on the Alamodome floor and finally got Payton untracked. After days of commentary about being outplayed by 19-year-old Tony Parker, Payton responded with 28 points, 12 rebounds and 11 assists, apparently figuring his second career playoff triple-double spoke more eloquently than any conversational trash with the youngster. He was supplemented by perhaps the most noteworthy achievement in the Sonics camp: A spectacular shooting night by rookie Vladimir Radmanovic, who replaced injured Rashard Lewis in the starting lineup, and whose 23 points included five of seven 3-point shots. Even Duncan wouldn't have done anything to alter what Radmanovic contributed. Part of last night's travail might be attributable to the schedule, since it was just the second game in the past 10 days. Loss of both muscle and mental memory, as well as bone mass, vision and flexibility, probably occurred in the semi-eternity it required to get to this point. But with laser-like quickness, Game 5 will be here tomorrow, although no one last night knew for sure if Duncan will be there, and what his physical and emotional state will be. ``This series is strange,'' said McMillan. ``Everything changes in one day.'' Last night made the point again, because McMillan's observation came before the, uh, event. 
