Edward J. Zander, the gregarious executive who oversaw daily operations at Sun Microsystems, plans to retire on July 1, the company said on Wednesday. Zander, the troubled computer maker's No. 2 executive, is the fourth high-profile Sun executive to announce a retirement in recent weeks. A fifth manager, Stephen DeWitt, the vice president of an important business unit leading Sun's efforts with the Linux operating system, quietly left the company Friday, the company confirmed on Wednesday. Investors showed their disappointment with Zander's departure. The stock plunged $1.21, or 14.8 percent, reaching a low not seen since 1998. Zander was credited by many analysts as having been the driving force behind Sun's rapid ascension before the bursting of the Internet bubble. Sun, which makes high-powered computers and software that run networks, will not immediately replace Zander as president and chief operating officer. Instead, Scott G. McNealy, Sun's chairman and chief executive, said he would assume the role of president on July 1, the beginning of Sun's next fiscal year. ``You've literally had the top three executives outside of McNealy resign within two weeks,'' said A.M. Sacconaghi Jr., an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein &AMP; Co. ``It has to raise the same kinds of doubts that investors raised today among some customers.'' Zander said he had decided to leave Sun last year, but wanted to wait until the company showed signs of emerging from the slump brought on by a slowdown in corporate spending and the sharp downturn in its main customer base, dot-coms. In an interview, Zander, who joined Sun in 1987 from Apollo Computer, said he has not decided on his future plans. But he did not rule out taking the helm of another company as early as next year. As it became clear that McNealy had no intention of leaving soon, Zander said, he realized that he would have to leave if he wanted to become a chief executive. ``That's not necessarily saying that I wanted to be CEO, but I knew that Scott was going to be in control here,'' Zander said. ``If I was going to experience something else in life, whatever that is, I had to move on, but I didn't want to move on until I felt the company was in a shape that was a lot better than a year ago.'' In the past two weeks, three other top executives have announced their plans to leave the company on July 1. They include the chief financial officer, Michael E. Lehman; the executive vice president of Sun's computer systems business, John Shoemaker; and the head of Sun's enterprise services business, Larry Hambly. Another executive, DeWitt, who resigned without public announcement Friday, had served as vice president of Sun's content delivery and edge computing division since Cobalt, the company he had led as chief executive, was acquired by Sun in September 2000. He had been viewed as an up-and-comer within Sun and was featured prominently at the company's meeting for Wall Street analysts in February. In a conference call with the company, some Wall Street analysts criticized Sun officials for stringing them along with four separate announcements of the retirements, rather than revealing them all together. They also expressed concern that other retirement announcements would soon follow _ a fear that McNealy did not dispel on the call. McNealy said several executives had wanted to retire last year but had decided to stay on through the end of this fiscal year to help the company through ``the rough patch.'' ``The fiscal year is the right time to go do this thing,'' McNealy said. ``I know it looks like a flurry here, but I think it's been positive and planned out.'' While Sun's fortunes are tied heavily to the overall economy and the return of corporate spending on information-technology systems, McNealy said that Sun was in better shape than it had been in the last two years. Its losses of $37 million for its fiscal third quarter, which ended March 31, narrowed in spite of flat sales, and Sun said it expected to turn a profit this quarter. As the top field marshal for McNealy, who sets the company's strategy, Zander has been responsible for intensifying Sun's competition with IBM in high-end computer systems that run networks and corporate data centers. Laura Conigliaro, an analyst with Goldman, Sachs, said it was unclear how Sun would replace Zander's mixture of intelligence, rationality and deep understanding of the marketplace. Zander has worked as an effective foil for McNealy, the brash and visionary leader who sets Sun's strategy and has jousted on the public and legal stage with Microsoft for years. ``When you look around the computer industry, or even more broadly, it's hard to find the qualities that Ed Zander has brought to Sun,'' she said. 
