Escapes section stories from The New York Times News Service for Friday, May 3. 	MINI-IN-THE-CITY (New York) _ I had a Mini for 24 hours last week on a crisp day before the rain came. Cobalt blue and with a Union Jack tattooed to its roof, the 12-foot-long car was as cute as a puppy, and just as magnetic. Within minutes, five Britons, one Jamaican and two Middle Europeans had gathered, of them squinting and bobbing and weaving around the car and each other as if the Mini were a new sort of maypole. They climbed into it, and inched under it; they grabbed one another by the elbow and told stories about their own Minis, their youths in faraway places. The original Mini is clearly a madeleine for Europeans of all ages. By Penelope Green. 	With photo. 	RELUCTANT-LANDLORDS (Undated) _ As summer approaches, Terry Forrest, a schoolteacher from Westbury, N.Y., dreams about lounging on the sweeping porch of his spacious summer home overlooking Lake Placid, going for a bracing dip in the lake before breakfast and greeting the day's sunset with a refreshing gin-and-tonic. But during July, someone else will be occupying his favorite Adirondack chair. Forrest is the fourth-generation owner of his family's landmark camp, Humdinger Hill, but he is the first who must rent out the property to make ends meet. Like many baby boomers who bought, built or inherited second homes during the economy's expansion, he is faced with the choice of renting out _ or selling out _ his beloved getaway. By Nancy M. Better. 	SEASIDE (Seaside, Fla.) _ Seaside is a disconcerting place. Driving toward it on Highway 98 from Pensacola, to the west, is like running a gantlet. Hit Fort Walton Beach, and you're nearing the heart of the Florida Panhandle.The traffic thickens. Huge chain hotels form a wall between road and beach to the right; sprawl stalwarts like TGI Friday's and a (shuttered) Kmart crowd each other to the left. Then, at the east end of Destin, just past a giant digital sign flashing the words HOT TUB in red letters, there's a respite. Minutes later, with little warning, a small sign for County Road 30A materializes, and if you follow that for 10 miles, you wind up in a place with no chain businesses of any kind, pristine brick streets with big pedestrian-friendly sidewalks, green spaces, multicolored houses and white picket fences. Welcome to Seaside. By Rob Walker. 	RITUALS-NAP (Undated) _ By 11 a.m. on Saturdays, many well-rested and recharged people are just climbing out of bed. I, on the other hand, am just climbing back in. I have been awake since 6 o'clock in the morning, tearing around town like someone privy to inside information about the Armageddon. After running myself into an exhausted heap, I desperately need a nap. Which is the whole point. For me, a two-hour nap after a whirlwind of activities is infinitely sweeter than simply sleeping in. By Stacy Kravetz. 	LEATHERMAN (Undated) _ There should be a secret handshake or some sort of covert signal of recognition when you meet another person who owns a Leatherman tool. It is not that we are smug exactly, but we do have a notable little edge of confidence and capability. It has nothing to do with us, of course, and everything to do with the mega-talents of the multipurpose Leatherman, a virtual toolbox folded into an implement the size of a pocketknife. By Suzanne Hamlin. 	NIAGARA-ON-THE-LAKE-36-HOURS (Undated) _ Though situated in Ontario only 20 minutes from the thunderous roar of Niagara Falls, it is impossible not to feel light years away from its touristy neighbor up river the moment you enter Niagara-on-the-Lake. Visitors flock to this quiet village to take in the Victorian architecture, tour the nearby wineries, or visit battle sites from the War of 1812. But the main reason people return to Niagara-on-the-Lake year after year is the theater. The Shaw Festival, held from the beginning of April to the end of November, specializes in the works of Bernard Shaw (1856-1950) and his contemporaries, showcasing, in the words of the festival's artistic director, Christopher Newton, ``plays about the beginning of the modern world.'' By Jennifer Conlin. 	With a map. 	COLLECTING-CARS (Undated) _ In the art market, impressionist paintings are in favor in some years. Other times, collectors want Paul Klee. Similiar trends motivate car collectors: in some years, Maseratis are the big sellers, and other times it's Mustang Mach I's. These days, the hottest part of the collector-car market is red, white and blue: American muscle cars (and milder-mannered pony cars) from the 1950s and '60s, and one-of-a-kind custom hot rods. By Keith Martin. 	For information and repeats call the News Service at 888-346-9867 or 212-556-1927. And be sure to look for other feature stories from our partners: The Boston Globe, Cox News Service, Hearst Newspapers, The Houston Chronicle, The Arizona Republic, Kansas City Star, Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Los Angeles Daily News, San Francisco Chronicle and Seattle Post-Intelligencer. 	(Editors: All clients receive all budgets, but only full-service clients receive all stories. Please check your level of service to determine which stories you will receive.) 
