Two siblings accused of suffocating and fatally stabbing their younger brother last month were ordered Wednesday to remain in the Denton County Juvenile Detention Center. The 15-year-old girl and her 11-year-old brother had separate, closed hearings, officials said. The parents were seeking the childrens' release. Judge Richard Podgorski announced his decision Wednesday morning in Denton. The siblings are accused of killing their younger brother, Jackson Carr, 6, whose body was found April 16 in a wooded, muddy ravine about 100 yards from the family's house on Barfknecht Lane in Lewisville near Denton in North Texas. The two have been at the juvenile center since the day the body was found. Detention hearings for each are scheduled for May 15, authorities said. Prosecutors have until that date to file charges, authorities said. The girl ``is confused about the legal proceedings,'' said Kimberly McCary of Lewisville, the girl's court-appointed attorney. ``I do believe her behavioral problems could be a factor in the case.'' The girl was behind in school and admitted to setting fire to an elementary school in Garland when she was 11, officials said. ``All that could be factors in determining if she is fit to stand trial,'' McCary said. McCary, who said she talks to her client almost every day, said the girl has been tested and interviewed by a doctor to determine her mental state. ``She also does not know how to read her parents, if they are supportive or not,'' McCary said. Michael and Rita Carr attended the hearings but did not have an opportunity to talk to their children, authorities said. McCary referred questions about her client's parents to attorney Dan Hagood of Dallas. Hagood could not be reached to comment Wednesday. Dan Kossmann of Denton, the court-appointed attorney for the 11-year-old, said the brother and sister will be tried separately, but he declined to comment on his client. ``I've handled clients as young as 10 years old, but I've never had one so young accused of murder,'' Kossmann said. Denton County District Attorney Bruce Isaacks said Wednesday that he could not comment on specifics in the Carr case. But in every juvenile case, prosecutors consider all options, Isaacks said. ``We will do what is best for the community,'' he said. Police said the 15-year-old, who led them to the body, admitted killing Jackson. The 11-year-old told police that he held Jackson down until he was dead, they said. The Tarrant County Medical Examiner's Office ruled that Jackson died from a stab wound to his neck. Suffocation also was listed as a cause of death. (Visit the Star-Telegram's online services on the World Wide Web: www.star-telegram.com) nn 
