Aquila Inc. on Wednesday said it would cut 500 jobs in an effort to improve profitability, placate skeptical credit rating agencies and confront ``challenging times.'' The job cuts will come from among Aquila's 3,000 employees who run the company's U.S. utilities in seven states. The impact will be greatest, however, in the company's 610-employee downtown Kansas City corporate headquarters. More than half of those employees _ 375 workers _ will be gone by July as the company cuts expenses. The job reduction is just one of several moves the company hopes will bolster its profitability and improve credit ratings that are under review. The jobs announcement came on the same day as the company announced details of its first-quarter earnings, which it had previously announced would be down sharply. The company also conducted its annual shareholders meeting at Starlight Theatre, which was attended by at least some unhappy investors. Aquila, formerly called UtiliCorp United Inc., has about 7,000 employees worldwide operating domestic and international utilities, energy trading and risk management, and Everest, a small unit offering cable TV, telephone and Internet service in the Kansas City area. Robert Green, Aquila's chief executive officer, laid out the company's plans for the future at the meeting and said he was not happy with the company's stock price. A year ago, the company's stock traded at $35.42 per share. It closed Monday at $16.32. ``We don't like what's happened,'' Green said. It was a striking contrast from last year's shareholder meeting, when the company was fresh from an initial public offering of its fast-growing energy trading subsidiary, which was to be spun off by early this year and enrich shareholders even more. It never happened. The company halted the spinoff late last year and recently repurchased all the shares in its energy trading operation. When Enron Corp. stumbled into bankruptcy amid allegations of financial scandal, it cast a pall over capital markets for other utilities and energy traders. Moreover, a suddenly docile market for energy prices was working against trading companies such as Aquila because volatility means profits. Credit rating agencies, criticized for not warning investors about Enron, increased their vigilance over energy trading companies such as Aquila. Moody's Investors Service, after hearing that Aquila's earnings would be down for the first quarter, said Friday that it was reviewing the company's credit rating for a possible downgrade. If that happened, the company's financing cost would rise. Standard &AMP; Poor's on Tuesday said it was putting Aquila on CreditWatch, which could lead to a downgrade. Green said he was frustrated that the company's cash flow, which has improved since 1999, seemed to be overlooked as the rating agencies focused on earnings. But Aquila will do what it takes to improve its rating. ``We'll deal with it,'' Green said. Aquila's stock price fell about 25 percent in the days leading up to Wednesday's annual meeting. One shareholder at the meeting told management, ``We wish you luck, and we wish us luck.'' Aquila had hours earlier released its results for the first quarter, which confirmed that earnings had fallen by 40 percent to $44.4 million, or 32 cents per share. A year earlier, the company was fresh from a quarter that fattened profits to $73.5 million, or 69 cents per share, because of soaring natural-gas prices. Sales fell 26 percent, from $11.98 billion a year ago to $8.86 billion during the first quarter of this year. There were few bright spots during the first quarter. International utilities posted an increase in earnings, as did ``client services,'' a branch of the business that includes selling risk management products. Green said the company had good fundamentals, but he laid out a recovery plan named ``Project BBB+,'' a play on Standard &AMP; Poor's credit ratings. Aquila's credit rating is now BBB, a step below BBB+. Green said the goal was not just to prevent a credit downgrade but to upgrade it. The job cuts are meant to increase earnings and cash flow and are part of the plan. The reductions will come solely out of the U.S. utilities operations, which provide relatively steady cash flow but have low growth. Aquila already had announced a reorganization of the unit. Previously the company only said that some job cuts would result. The 500 job cuts announced Wednesday will hit the downtown New York Life building, the architectural landmark at 20 W. Ninth St. where Aquila has its headquarters. The headquarters, which has about 610 employees, is where the majority of the jobs will be lost. On Tuesday, the company said it would consider selling the building and leasing space back to save money. Aquila's energy trading division, which has about 740 employees who work in the Town Pavilion downtown at 12th and Main streets, will remain untouched by the job cuts. In another move, Aquila said it would sell about $550 million in assets. Keith Stamm, head of the company's global networks division, said Wednesday that the company was considering its options for Pulse, an Australian gas and electric utility that Aquila partly owns. As for other assets, the company could sell U.S. or other international utilities. That is now under review. ``There are no sacred cows,'' Stamm said. Already, plans are in place to further change the mix of businesses that generate the company's earnings. Energy trading had been counted on to provide much of those profits. That role will decline somewhat. Green said in an interview that he was not surprised that energy trading was volatile. But the suddenness of the turn was somewhat surprising. On Tuesday, the company said it had agreed to purchase Cogentrix Energy Inc., the country's largest independent power producer, for $1.5 billion. It sells most of its power under long-term contracts in the unregulated wholesale market. The purchase will improve earnings and cash flow for the company, Green said. One byproduct of the deal is that the contribution to profits by energy trading will decline somewhat. Green said the Cogentrix deal, which is expected to close in the fall, would also help the gradual recovery of the stock price. The company also might soon be leaving another vestige of its past. Earlier this year, Aquila said it was keeping Arthur Andersen, which has been widely criticized for its role in the Enron affair, as its auditor. Some Aquila shareholders on Wednesday wondered why the company would retain the auditor. Green said that the company was concerned about keeping accountants who were familiar with the company. But he added that Aquila was discussing a change in accounting firms. No timetable was disclosed, but he said a change probably would be made. 
