`COMPASSIONATE CONSERVATISM' STILL NEITHER(a) (For use by N.Y. Times News Service clients)(a) By ROBERT ROBB(a) c.2002 The Arizona Republic(a) (PHOENIX) - So, how's President Bush doing? That question seems to be on the minds of a lot of people, including, apparently, President Bush. Conservative dissatisfaction with Bush's domestic leadership has bubbled over the last several weeks, catalyzed by his signing a campaign finance bill that violated every principle he had laid down on the issue. Democrats, of course, have been constantly probing for ways to attack Bush around the shield of his public popularity over the handling of the war on terrorism. Their latest gambit is to use the Middle East difficulties to re-raise questions about Bush's depth. Bush did well in the simplistic, good vs. evil conflict with Osama bin Laden, goes the spin. But he's out of his element in managing the complications of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Of course, the current escalation was caused, in part, by that master of nuance, President Clinton, pushing the parties beyond what was achievable. To quiet this roiling of the political waters, Bush delivered a speech in San Jose on Tuesday that his media office described as defining ``in theory and practice what it means to be a compassionate conservative and how this vision guides his administration.'' Bush has been a superb war leader. He has embodied and given voice to the American spirit in response to the Sept. 11 attacks. His administration acted with dispatch, thoroughness and success in eradicating the most immediate threat to the United States, eliminating Afghanistan as a safe base from which our enemies could operate. It has also moved with alacrity and resolve in containing other al-Qaida threats, preventing it from regrouping and choking off its finances. Even before Sept. 11, the Bush administration was reasserting a welcome American independence in foreign policy. The Bush presidency has proven its worth singly by getting the United States out of the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty with a minimum of bother. By doing that, and withdrawing from the flawed Kyoto global warming treaty, the Bush administration unbound the United States from an often unwise and feckless international community and consensus. But on domestic policy, there is little to cheer about. In theory and in practice, Bush's ``compassionate conservatism'' either falls short, doesn't work, or involves an unwelcome expansion of federal power. Take the tax cut, Bush's only conservative domestic achievement thus far. Republicans used to advocate tax reform that would make the income tax ``simpler, flatter and fairer.'' Bush's tax cut did modestly but protractedly decrease income tax rates. But he has steadfastly advocated a more complicated tax code, proposing more generous credits and deductions for every conceivable beneficial human activity, from charitable giving to home ownership, from education to heath care. This cannibalizing of the tax base hinders, rather than advances, true tax reform. His education plan increased federal involvement and control, when the evidence indicates that decentralization does more to improve student learning. From the beginning, Bush's energy plan was primarily an assemblage of subsidies for every fuel for which there is not currently much of a market. It wasn't worth the bargain even when drilling in the Arctic reserve was included. The problems inherent in Bush's ``compassionate conservatism'' are most readily apparent in its signature program, the faith-based initiative. Bush has an important insight in the fact that religious organizations often have more success in dealing with social problems than do governmental or secular ones. But that greater success is precisely because of their religious content, the message that there is a God, He loves you, and you can rely upon and use that love to change your life. As powerful and important as that message is, it is not one government should subsidize in a free society. In his speech, Bush said his ``compassionate conservatism'' was charting a new course between ``big government'' and ``indifferent government.'' But there are some things the federal government should not be in the business of doing. And to the extent ``compassionate conservatism'' means blurring rather than restoring those lines, it will fail - and will deserve to do so. Reach Robb at robert.robb(a)arizonarepublic.com or (602) 444-8472. His column appears Sundays, Wednesdays and Fridays. 
