In the months since Sept. 11, Europe has seen an increase in attacks on synagogues and other Jewish centers, a rise in threats and intimidation directed at individual Jews and an increase in anti-Jewish propaganda of one sort or another. On April 21 Jean-Marie Le Pen, the blithely anti-Semitic leader of the far-right National Front, gained second place in the first round of the French presidential election _ a remarkable victory, however bad a drubbing he gets in Sunday's second round. In Germany armed police guard Jewish schools, and Jews are advised not to wear visible signs of their faith. In Britain, often praised for its tolerance, a synagogue was attacked and desecrated this very week. This great new surge of European anti-Semitism, if that is what these events signify, solves a puzzle that has been taxing a lot of Americans: Israel is a victim of terrorism, much as America was a victim of terrorism in September. Israel is defending itself against pitiless murderers with all available means, much as America is defending itself. Right and wrong in the matter, or so most Americans believe, could hardly be clearer. Why, then, Americans ask, is Europe taking the side of Palestine's suicide bombers, passing lightly over their crimes, while vilifying Israel's government for what is, under the circumstances, a restrained assault on the terrorist infrastructure of the West Bank? These perverted sympathies seem quite inexplicable, unless the answer, albeit painful to contemplate, is obvious: Anti-Semitism, it is argued, explains it all. This account of European attitudes seems to be catching on in the United States. In a recent and not unrepresentative column in The Washington Post, Charles Krauthammer, one of the Post's most distinguished political commentators, writes this: ``What we are seeing is pent-up anti-Semitism, the release _ with Israel as the trigger _ of a millennium-old urge that powerfully infected and shaped European history,'' Krauthammer writes. ``What is odd is not the anti-Semitism of today but its relative absence during the past half-century. That was the historical anomaly. Holocaust shame kept the demon corked for that half-century. But now the atonement is passed. The genie is out again. ``This time, however, it is more sophisticated,'' he continues. ``It is not a blanket hatred of Jews. Jews can be tolerated, even accepted, but they must know their place. Jews are fine so long as they are powerless, passive and picturesque. What is intolerable is Jewish assertiveness, the Jewish refusal to accept victimhood. And nothing so embodies that as the Jewish state.'' Is the supposed release of Europe's loathing of the assertive Jew in fact a good explanation for the gulf that divides the United States from its European allies where Israel is concerned? Sadly, recent events have lent the idea plausibility _ but it is nonetheless wrong, a gross distortion and a terrible slander. The enormity of the Holocaust ought to have eradicated anti-Semitism for all time. Shamefully, it did not. In much of the world, hatred of Jews thrives. In particular, newspapers and broadcasters across most of the Arab world deal routinely in repellent expressions of loathing of Jews and their faith. Elsewhere in the world _ in Europe and, it should not be forgotten, also in the United States _ anti-Semitism also survives, most visibly in a fringe of neo-Nazis and other despised outcasts, but also, and somewhat more widely, in the milder forms of prejudice and suspicion. Still, impossible as it may be to measure people's private feelings, the great majority of Europeans seem to us to harbor no suppressed anti-Semitic hatred. On the contrary, they sincerely deplore anti-Semitism, so much so that Krauthammer's portrait of Europe's secret heart will strike many as a shocking insult. In most of Europe, to call somebody anti-Semitic is one of the worst accusations you can make. It is not one to be made lightly. But recent events in Europe _ the attacks on synagogues, the success of Le Pen _ give the lie to that reply, don't they? Alarming and deplorable as they are, the answer is no. These events do not show that anti-Semitism is broadening its base. Anti-Semitism has lately been more apparent in France than elsewhere in Europe, but even there Le Pen found it opportune to soft-pedal the anti-Jewish prejudice, calculating that it made better sense to denounce attacks on Jews in order to stir up hatred of Muslim immigrants. It suited Le Pen in this election actually to pose as a defender of French Jews against their Muslim enemies and against immigrants in general _ an odd way to call on brimming reserves of anti-Jewish hatred, waiting these past 60 years to overflow. It is important to understand that in most of Europe, as in America, anti-Semitism is a prejudice of a small minority, not the mainstream. A quite separate point is that criticism of Israel, let alone criticism of its government, need not be motivated by hatred of Jews. In their support for Ariel Sharon, Americans have often seemed more united than Israelis. Israelis who feel that Sharon is wrong to resist a settlement with the Palestinians are presumably not guided in that belief by anti-Semitism, not even of the disguised or pent-up kind. This is not to deny that some outside criticism of Israel and its policies is indeed partly fueled by anti-Semitism. Where that is true, as in the claims of many Arab governments and commentators and in many of Europe's Muslim communities, it should be recognized and repudiated. It is only to say what should be obvious but apparently isn't: that it is not anti-Semitic per se to criticize Sharon. Europeans have in fact become readier to criticize Israeli policies in recent years. The guilt that people who lived through the 1930s and 1940s felt about their failure to prevent the Holocaust is not felt to the same degree by the postwar generation. The good will that attended the birth and early years of Israel, which extended to admiration and active support during the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s _ so much for Europe's loathing of Jews who stick up for themselves _ has since waned. Criticism of Israel that would once have been bitten back is now being freely expressed. In the same way, and this is to be regretted, the zeal of Europe's rejection of Jewish hatred _ its anti-anti-Semitism _ may have faded somewhat too, especially on the left. In both these ways, Krauthammer's point about declining Holocaust shame has a semblance of validity. These developments are new, as he says, but they are not the same thing as a resurgence of anti-Semitism. Some Europeans have indeed taken what we consider to be an overly critical line on Sharon, but they could very easily be wrong, foolish, cowardly or immoral without being anti-Semitic. For the sake of clearer thinking about the Middle East _ and in the interests of a close Atlantic alliance, which for all its difficulties is worth defending _ Krauthammer and those who agree with him need to understand this. 
