Editors at publications outside the United States may find the following stories from The New York Times News Service for Friday, May 3 of particular interest: 	INTERNATIONAL (``i'' code) 	The Middle East 	MIDEAST (Ramallah, West Bank) _ A ledeall: A defiant Yasser Arafat emerged from his shattered headquarters Thursday for the first time since the end of a month-long Israeli siege; he toured Ramallah and flashed a V-for-victory sign to cheering supporters. With other developments, in Bethlehem and at the Jenin refugee camp. By James Bennet. 	With photos, NYT1-6, and a map. 	MIDEAST-BETHLEHEM (Bethlehem, West Bank) _ Developments. As the Israeli military agrees to consider a Ramallah-style deal to settle the standoff at the Church of the Nativity, seven peace activists rush past troops and carry food into the church. This follows another major firefight early Thursday in which a Palestinian policeman was killed. By C.J. Chivers. 	MIDEAST-JENIN (Jenin Refugee Camp, West Bank) _ In an extensive report, Human Rights Watch said Thursday that the Israeli army may have committed war crimes in Jenin, and called for a full-scale investigation. It particularly cited the use of human shields. The report said it had identified 52 Palestinians who were killed, of whom 22 were civilians; it criticized the bulldozing of 140 houses for no apparent military purpose. By David Rohde. 	MIDEAST-CONGRESS (Washington) _ The House is expected to pass a resolution of support for Israel by an overwhelming margin. Separately, in a television interview, Republican Leader Dick Armey reportedly advocated moving the Palestinians out of the occupied territories. By Alison Mitchell. 	Terror 	AFGHAN (Bagram Air Base, Afghanistan) _ Developing: More details emerge on the latest big operation in Afghanistan, though there has been no fighting or serious contact with the enemy. The Royal Marines spokesman, Lt. Col. Paul Harradine said American conventional troops, special forces and aircraft, including Apache attack helicopters and A-10 ``Warthog'' jets, were involved but declined to give specific details of their role. By Carlotta Gall. 	Other International 	FRANCE-CHIRAC (Paris) _ At a major campaign rally for President Jacques Chirac. By Alan Cowell. 	With 	FRANCE-LEPEN (Marseille, France) _ France braced again for potentially violent protests as the far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen headed here for a final campaign rally. By Suzanne Daley. 	YUGO-WARCRIMES (Paris) _ A former Yugoslav deputy prime minister, Nikola Sainovic, who flew to The Hague on Thursday to turn himself in to the U.N. war crimes tribunal, was a key ally of former president Slobodan Milosevic. He is the second suspect indicted along with Milosevic to surrender. By Marlise Simons. 	WORLD-BRIEFS (Undated) _ World news in brief. 	UNITED STATES _ General (``a'' code) 	PRIEST-ABUSE-POLL (Undated) _ A New York Times/CBS News poll shows that American Catholics think church leaders have done a poor job of handling the priest sex scandals; they support in zero tolerance for sexually abusive priests and think that leaders who mishandled cases of abuse should resign. By Robin Toner. 	PRIEST-ARREST (Boston) _ The Rev. Paul Shanley was arrested in San Diego on three counts of raping a boy in Massachusetts. His accuser went to prosecutors this week and said Shanley had raped him between 1983 and 1990. Angry reaction to the Boston archdiocese's sympathetic handling of Shanley helped lead the pope to call last week's meeting of cardinal's in Rome. These are the first criminal charges against Shanley. By Pam Belluck. 	POPE-CONFESSION (Rome) _ At a time when the American church is dealing with the sex-abuse scandal, the pope on Thursday stressed the need for Catholics to confess their sins to be forgiven _ but said some habitual sinners could never be absolved. He calls for reforming penance process, saying priests have become too lax in having group-penance services. By Melinda Henneberger. 	UNITED STATES _ Washington (``w'' code) 	PILOTS-GUNS (Washington) _ Momentum builds on Capitol Hill for legislation that would allow pilots to carry guns in cockpits. Bipartisan support in both houses demonstrated on Thursday with news conferences and bill introductions. By Matthew L. Wald. 	SCIENCE (``a'' code) 	SCI-OZONE-ANTARCTICA (Undated) _ Scientists now believe that the hole in the ozone layer may be responsible for cooling, not warming, in Antarctica. By Kenneth Chang. 	With a graphic. 	FINANCIAL (``f'' code) 	BRAZIL-BEER (Caracas, Venezuela) _ Brazilian beer giant Ambev has agreed to acquire a 36 percent stake in the the owner of Argentina's leading brewer, Quilmes, in the first major foreign investment in Argentina since it devalued the peso. By Simon Romero. 	IRELAND-CONTAINERBOARD (London) _ Jefferson Smurfit Group, the world's biggest maker of containerboard, says it it is talks that may lead to its takeover. An offer of $3.6 billion is expected, which would be the largest in Irish corporate history. By Suzanne Kapner. 	MICRON-HYNIX (Seoul, South Korea) _ Micron Technology says that it has withdrawn from discussions about purchasing Hynix Semiconductor's memory-chip business. By Don Kirk. 	BANKS-ASIA (Tokyo) _ The world's biggest banks took another step back from Asia's financial markets, with one group abandoning an after-hours trading system in Japan and a second cutting nearly a quarter of its investment banking staff. With Japan's stock market in tatters, Goldman Sachs Group and three online brokers said they will close their overnight trading system targeting individual investors, many of whom continue to cling to safer assets. In Hong Kong, J.P. Morgan Chase &AMP; Co. said it was firing more than 100 investment bankers in the region as the company scrambles to cut costs. By Ken Belson. 	WORLD-BIZ-BRIEFS (Undated) _ Short items on business news from around the world. 	ENTERTAINMENT/ARTS (``e'' unless otherwise indicated) 	NY-IN-PHOTOS (New York) _ Like many natural beauties, New York is effortlessly photogenic. It has fabulous bones and hardly any bad angles. It looks good in anything: rain, sunshine, blizzards. Its personality comes through in flashes: antic, sloppy, noble, rude. Its bad days are more exciting than good days anywhere else. And its good days are the best, period. Since last September, more photographs of the city have probably been circulating than at any time in its history. Countless new pictures, professional and amateur, have been shot; countless old pictures have been hauled out of storage for scrutiny. Three institutions _ the Jewish Museum, the Museum of the City of New York and the Metropolitan Museum of Art _ have big but very different shows of such material this spring. By Holland Cotter. 	PRODUCERS-THEATER-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``The Producers,'' with new actors in the lead roles, is re-reviewed by Ben Brantley. 	With photo. 	In addition, The Times will review these movies: 	AFRICA-FILM-REVIEW: ``ABC Africa'' 	DEUCES-FILM-REVIEW: ``Deuces Wild'' 	FLEEING-FILM-REVIEW: ``Fleeing By Night'' 	MASSEUR-FILM-REVIEW: ``The Mystic Masseur'' 	SPIDERMAN-FILM-REVIEW: ``Spiderman''; with photo. 	WARM-FILM-REVIEW: ``Warm Water Under A Red Bridge'' 	BABE-BOOK-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``The Emperor's Babe,'' by Bernardine Evaristo (Viking). Reviewed by Richard Eder. 	FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION please contact Gary McCardell, News Service day editor; e-mail garymc(at)nytimes.com; 888-346-9867 or 212-556-1927. 	MOVING LATER: 	AM-NYT-BUDGET _ The top international, U.S., political and financial stories being considered by New York Times editors. 	AM-ADD-NYT-BUDGET _ A rundown of culture, lifestyle, sports, and special section stories will move by 3:00 p.m. ET. 	AM-PAGE1-NYT-CONSIDER _ A list of stories being considered by New York Times editors for Page 1 will move at 4:30 p.m. 	AM-EARLY-FRONTPAGE-NYT _ Stories scheduled for Page 1 will be listed by 7 p.m. 	AM-FRONTPAGE-NYT _ A description of the front page layout of the first edition of The New York Times will move at 7:30 p.m. 	TECHNICAL PROBLEMS: 	Berris Anderson 	(212) 499-3337, berris(AT)nytimes.com 	e-mail to pager: page-berris(AT)nytimes.com 	numeric page: 1-800-759-8888 pin 1066839 	or 	Harry Brindley 	(212) 499-3304, harryb(AT)nytimes.com 	e-mail to pager: harryb(AT)nytimes.com 	numeric page: 1-888-710-8736 	NEW YORK TIMES PARTNERS: 	Please note that the New York Times News Service report includes news and features from The Arizona Republic, The Boston Globe, Cox News Service, The Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Hearst Newspapers, The Houston Chronicle, The Kansas City Star, The Los Angeles Daily News, The San Francisco Chronicle, The Seattle Post-Intelligencer, States News Service and the New York Times Regional Newspapers. 	(Editors: All clients receive all budgets, but only full-service clients receive all stories. Please check your level of service to determine which stories you will receive.) 
