TUSCALOOSA, Ala. - It is a very warm April afternoon at the University of Alabama football complex. The outside door to the Crimson Tide weight room has been thrown open, allowing precious air _ and any curious visitors _ to enter. The intensity inside is high. When one player lifts the weights upon his shoulders, the others scream motivation at the top of their lungs. Once the task is completed, there are high fives all around. If we are to believe football coaches, who say here is where and when fall games are actually won, then Alabama's players are working on an undefeated season. ``It really gives you a lift,'' quarterback Tyler Watts says. ``It's one of the things that bonds you as a team.'' The truth is, the Crimson Tide does not know what it will be playing for this fall. Alabama, 7-5 last season under first-year coach Dennis Franchione, could be as good as anybody in the ultra-balanced Southeastern Conference West. But there is a chance that championships and bowl games will be unattainable, regardless of the Tide's efforts in the weight room or on the field. The NCAA Committee on Appeals will rule in June or July on the penalties levied against Alabama on Feb. 1, which included a two-year ban on postseason bowls and the loss of 15 scholarships during the next three years. At the very least, Alabama's hope is that it will get one of those years restored on the bowl ban. But the question being whispered most often on Paul Bryant Drive is this: How will this Alabama team, that is saying and doing all the right things today, actually react if the news is bad? How motivated will Alabama be if it becomes official that the 2002 season must be played without the possibility of going to a bowl or competing for the SEC championship? Do they go in the tank after the season's first loss? ``Whatever happens, it is our job as coaches to help our players work through it,'' Franchione says. ``It may get a little bumpy, but we'll be fine.'' When Alabama started the 2001 season 3-5, there was always the hope of winning its last three games and going to a bowl. That is exactly what Alabama did, and then it went on to beat Iowa State in the Independence Bowl. That string of four wins was the perfect emotional foundation to build toward the 2002 season. Then came the sanctions on Feb. 1, ``a very difficult day for all of us,'' Franchione says. Franchione has had several months to get his team refocused on the task at hand, but another big announcement is coming. Should Alabama stumble out of the gate again this fall, and there is no larger goal to pursue, what will be the motivating force to right the ship? ``The good news is that the NCAA situation is not controlling anything we do right now,'' said Watts, a senior from Pelham, Ala. ``There has never been a day when guys said they didn't work out or that they didn't care anymore.'' According to Watts, this Alabama team has already established two major goals if it cannot go to a bowl: (1) To win its second straight game over rival Auburn, which would be the fourth victory over the Tigers in the past five seasons; (2) to break Tennessee's seven-game winning streak, the longest of any school against the Crimson Tide. ``More than anything, the seniors on this team want to go out as winners,'' Watts says. ``All of us have been through a 3-8 season, and that is far worse than not be able to go to a bowl game.'' Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
