Friday, May 3, 2002 	Editors: 	The Hearst News Service will file the following for Saturday. If you have questions, please call Tim Spence at 202-298-6920. 	(``HNS'' appears in all sluglines.) 	ENTERTAINMENT (``e'' category) 	TV-NETWORK-NEWS (Undated) _ Broadcast news is a dinosaur, withering under the assault of 24-hour cable outlets. The three aging white guys are strictly old-school. But don't write the obituary for network news so soon: The nightly broadcast newscasts on average draw nearly 30 million viewers. Each one outdraws top cable news programs by a minimum ratio of 3 to 1. And the broadcasters have a 10 to 1 edge over most cablecasts. By MARK McGUIRE. 	BOOKS-CHILDREN _ We sift through some of the many new books of poems and other topics in the children's section of the bookstore and offer suggestions for your reading pleasure. By JANE P. MARSHALL. 	NATIONAL NEWS (``a'' category) 	LYME-DISEASE (Albany, N.Y.) _ Lyme disease has likely spread throughout New York state, health official said, based on research that has found small mammals across New York infected with the bacteria that causes the disease. By DINA CAPPIELLO. 	STODDARD-OBIT (Albany, N.Y.) _ Richard K. Stoddard, a longtime Times Union artist and graphics editor, died at the age of 46. He had been living at the home of his ailing mother in Gloversville, N.Y., where he had been caring for her during the last several months. By RICK KARLIN. 	BUSINESS/FINANCIAL NEWS (``f'' category) 	SEGWAY-INVENTION (Houston) _ Employees find themselves opening their doors a little more carefully these days at Benchmark's Houston offices. That's because their boss, Wayne Kinsey, is apt to come zipping down the hallway on his new $160,000 toy, a much-heralded scooter known variably as IT, Ginger or now, officially, Segway. Kinsey won an auction last month to buy the first publicly available Segway. He says it's sort of like owning the first Model-T. By ERIC BERGER. 	LIFESTYLE/FEATURES (``l'' category) 	HOME-SPAS (Houston) _ Whether you light a scented candle, turn on soft music and slip into a bubble bath, or a masseuse kneads your tired muscles on your personal massage table in a fancy home spa, it's all about relaxing. But with today's hectic schedules, many busy women _ and men, too _ find a day at a spa too time-consuming. That's where the home spa comes in _ a personal retreat where you can go at your convenience. By MADELEINE McDERMOTT HAMM. 	GARDEN-COLUMN (Houston) _ Want information on the aromatic plant spikenard? Don't know if your Delphinium grandiflorum ``Blue Butterfly'' will survive in hot climates or why some hydrangea buds don't open? Our garden columnist has the answers? By KATHY HUBER. 	TRAVEL (``t'' category) 	TRAV-BOOKS (Houston) _ With topics that range from shopping in Paris to archaeology in Mexico, newly published books whet the appetite for travel. We offer a sampling of recent releases. By EILEEN McCLELLAND. 	TRAV-COLUMN (Houston) _ Peter Greenberg, the outspoken travel editor for NBC, isn't anti-security; like many travelers, he just decries inconsistency and a lack of good sense. He tells about being told that his gummy bears constituted a third carry-on and that he could only have two items. But then he also tells about a ``Today'' show security agent who donned a custom-made badge, made his way to New York's LaGuardia Airport and, just by flashing the badge, gained access to all sorts of ``secure'' areas. By HARRY SHATTUCK. 
