Six days after a group of nursing home workers began bickering over $58.9 million they thought they had won in a multistate lottery, the real winners _ Jorge and Joanne Lopes of Manalapan, N.J. _ stepped forward Tuesday to claim their money and contemplate their new life. While the would-be winners were locked in a battle that spilled into the newspapers and network television, Mr. and Mrs. Lopes, who have been burdened by creditors' lawsuits, liens and a bankruptcy filing over the past three years, had already been hard at work, the couple said at a news conference here Tuesday. They had put the winning ticket in a bank safe-deposit box, assembled a team of four lawyers to help manage their new fortune, and set up a company called Lucky Break LLC for tax purposes. Last Wednesday they submitted the winning ticket to New Jersey lottery headquarters, then sat silently as lottery officials investigated and debunked a claim by Newark nursing-home workers that a co-worker had bought a winning ticket for their lottery pool and was trying to cheat them out of the winnings. Tuesday, flanked by their legal team and lottery executives, the Lopeses finally emerged at the news conference here, ending nearly two weeks of speculation and squabbling over who in New Jersey had won a share of the $331 million jackpot in the Big Game multistate lottery drawing on April 16. Beaming but a bit timid, the couple seemed none too eager to share any grand notions about how they would spend their $58.9 million, the largest single payoff in the 32-year history of the New Jersey lottery. ``There's not to many words to say,'' Jorge Lopes, 46, said. ``I'm still dumbfounded. I'm just trying not to shake too much. I want to thank God for the miracle that happened.'' He said his immediate plan was to pay his bills. But neither he nor his lawyers mentioned the couple's recent problems with debt or their bankruptcy filing last May, in which they reported nearly $600,000 in unpaid debt; the filing was dismissed in October and the couple was denied the court's protection from creditors, according to court documents posted on the Web site thesmokinggun.com. Various lawsuits and liens have been filed against the couple by banks, credit card companies and the Internal Revenue Service since the late 1990s, according to court documents, which said that some of the liens were lifted after debt was repaid. But other liens remain, including one filed by the IRS in January 2001 for $78,243, according to documents. Jorge Lopes, who said he immigrated to the United States from his native Portugal in 1977, owns a small Portuguese restaurant, Don Antonio I, in Union, N.J., and manages another, the Vilamoura, in Hillside, about two blocks from the highway convenience store where he bought the winning ticket April 13. Joanne Lopes teaches at a day-care center near the couple's home and also drives a delivery van for a local flower shop. Both demurred Tuesday when prodded about any lavish spending in their future. Jorge Lopes said he had no plans to give up his ``very old Volvo.'' Joanne Lopes said she hoped for a ``nice'' gift from her husband when they celebrate their 20th wedding anniversary in August. She said she hoped eventually to buy a new home to replace their two-story white brick home. ``It's going to be different, but we'll enjoy it,'' she said. ``I'm me and I don't think I'll change.'' Jorge Lopes said his primary concern was the family's privacy and the safety of the couple's children. He said they had ``lots'' of children but refused to say any more about them. Neighbors in Manalapan and patrons and friends in the two restaurants described Mr. and Mrs. Lopes as friendly, hard-working people. They had continued to work during the past two weeks and apparently kept the news about their new windfall a secret from all but a very few close friends. On Sunday, Jorge Lopes was busy at both restaurants, looking in on parties that are a staple of their business. ``He looked worried, but I thought he was worried that he didn't have enough workers,'' said Ricardo Catarino, a bartender at Vilamoura. ``He's a great guy. He should take a great vacation because he needs it. This is a tough business to run.'' At the Don Antonio restaurant, the bartender, Carla Sousa, learned of her boss' big win while watching the bar's television. She shouted to others in Portuguese, ``Come and see, come and see, it's George!'' One patron, Michael Czerminski, 43, who said he had known Jorge Lopes for 22 years said: ``God bless him. I guess we won't be seeing him in here for a while.'' (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS) During the day in Englishtown, neighbors collected in yards to share the news and some drivers stopped and yelled to them: ``Do you believe it?'' and ``Isn't it incredible?'' Palmer Lopiccolo said she was elated for Joanne Lopes. ``I always asked her how she did it with two jobs and the kids,'' Lopiccolo said. ``She said she was tired, but she had to feed her kids. I used to cook for her sometimes because she had no time.'' During the news conference, Jorge Lopes said he felt sorry for the 20 nurses' aides in Newark who thought briefly that they might have won. Asked if he would offer them some of his millions, he smiled, shrugged and said: ``We'll see about that.'' Jorge Lopes said his wife became jittery last Wednesday after a lawyer for the workers mailed lottery officials a letter, saying they believed they were entitled to a legitimate share of the $58.9 million prize. ``I told my wife to let things take their course because the truth will come out,'' he said. 
