It's generally accepted that one of the things a horse has to do to win the Kentucky Derby is get a workout over the surface at Churchill Downs. And it's well known that a gelding has not won the Derby since 1929, though 73 have tried since then. Another standard for Derby winners is that they have their last race at least five weeks before the Derby, if not sooner. The last time a horse won the Derby six weeks after his last race was 46 years ago when Needles did it. Perfect Drift is a gelding who hasn't raced in six weeks. He's training and working out at a converted harness track, which resembles a trailer park more than it does Churchill Downs. So why should anyone consider him a possible Derby winner? ``Because he gets over the ground just effortlessly,'' exercise rider Joe Deegan said, after putting Perfect Drift through a five-eighths mile workout Tuesday at the Trackside training facility located 10 minutes from Churchill (the workout was timed officially in 1 minute and 4-5 of a second). ``He moves very easy at a high cruising speed, and he can turn it up an extra gear, which is what you need for a race like this,'' said Deegan, who also galloped former Kentucky Oaks winners Flute and Keeper Hill. Perfect Drift showed the extra gear in his last race, when he won the $500,000 Spiral Stakes at Turfway Park. He was never as much as three lengths back before making a big move in the stretch under Eddie Delahoussaye. Delahoussaye is a Hall of Fame jockey who has won the Derby twice, and he's back to ride Perfect Drift. There are stories behind the decision to ``cut,'' or geld, Perfect Drift and to keep him at Trackside. When colts are cut, it's often done because they have become too aggressive or are growing too big. The better-bred horses that show talent aren't cut. Dr. William Reed, a heart surgeon who bred and still owns Perfect Drift, had the horse fixed because he's more interested in racing than breeding. ``And my farm in Kansas City is 110 acres, surrounded by woods,'' Reed said. ``If you have a bunch of fillies there, it's dangerous to have a stallion around. You have to get another field set aside.'' Murray Johnson is making his second appearance as a trainer in the Derby, after Green Alligator finished fourth in 1991. He trains Perfect Drift at Trackside because the facility allowed his operation to grow. ``My business was small and I was trying to expand,'' he said. ``This place was new \Rafter being converted from a harness facility\S, and they gave me a couple of extra stalls.'' Perfect Drift is one of four horses that won't have a workout at Churchill before the race. Johannesburg, Castle Gandolfo and Buddha are the others. ``I don't think that you particularly have to work out here,'' said Ken McPeek, who trains Harlan's Holiday at Churchill. ``The surface is different than it used to be, and it's fairer. So I think there will be a Derby winner who has not trained here, and I think that day may be coming soon.'' In a year when odds on the Derby favorite might be as high as 5-1 (that would be a record), Perfect Drift's odd circumstances may be a winning combination. BRIEFLY A loss for the Kentucky Oaks may be a gain for the Lone Star Derby. After trainer Carl Nafzger pulled Belterra from consideration for Friday's Oaks, he said he may try his filly against males in the $500,000 Lone Star Derby on May 11. Nafzger believed he didn't have enough time to prepare Belterra for the Oaks after she underwent throat surgery April 8. Probable Derby favorite Harlan's Holiday worked a half-mile in 49 3-5 seconds Tuesday under jockey Edgar Prado. Other workouts included Essence Of Dubai (five-eighths mile in 1:01 1-5) and War Emblem (five-eighths in 1:00 2-5). Cigar and Serena's Song highlight the list of five that will be inducted into the horse racing Hall of Fame in August. The others are Bud Delp (trainer of 1979 Derby winner Spectacular Bid), Jack Westrope (1993's leading apprentice jockey who died in a racing accident in 1958 at Hollywood Park) and 1950 champion handicap horse Noor. nn 
