The New York Times said in an editorial for Friday, May 3: It seems hard to believe that we have already grown used to seeing images from the Hubble Space Telescope in the dozen years since it was first launched. But the startling pictures released this week from a newly restored Hubble are a reminder that we had, in fact, begun to take for granted our ability to peer into deep space, an ability no generation of humans has ever possessed before. In a sense, these new images, produced with cameras and power sources that were added or rejuvenated during a space shuttle flight in March, feel something like learning to see all over again. They remind us what an astonishing chapter of astronomical understanding, for scientists and laymen alike, the Hubble Space Telescope has opened. The latest photographs were taken by the Hubble's new Advanced Camera for Surveys, which began operating a month ago. Looking at them is like looking at a fundamental principle of physics. You see both energy and matter, revealed with a vibrancy that is simply overpowering. As forms, as colors, these objects are entrancing. But it is only when you begin to realize what these forms are that the real wonder appears. Beyond the uniformity of the naked-eye universe, there is this other universe, the one Hubble discovers with astonishing clarity. This is a place full of discordant objects, of cataclysmic disturbances. Galaxies devour each other. Stars form in infernos of gas and dust and light. And they do so against the backdrop of a sky that is almost unimaginably deep. For what the Hubble cameras show us, especially in their new incarnation, is time itself. The distance of the distant objects in these images is measured as much by their relative youth, by how far back in time we must peer to see them, as by their distance measured in a spatial dimension. By now it sounds almost natural to say that among the objects revealed in these new images are galaxies that were formed when the universe was only a billion years old. It sounds natural until you really think about it, and then, swiftly, the scale of the Hubble revolution becomes apparent. It has taught us to see the properties of a universe humans have been able, for most of their history, to probe only with their thoughts. 
