The Teamsters union filed a lawsuit Wednesday to stop a White House plan to allow Mexican trucks on U.S. highways, claiming the vehicles will ``dramatically increase'' U.S. air pollution. ``Commercial trucks from Mexico will not meet this country's tougher emissions standards,'' said James P. Hoffa, president of the Teamsters, in a written statement. ``We should make sure that these trucks are safe and in full compliance with the same clean air rules'' as American trucks, he said. The suit, filed in a San Francisco federal court, seeks an emergency ruling to block the law that allows the trucks fromtaking effect on Friday. It asks a judge to order an environmental assessment before any Mexican trucks are allowed farther than designated border zones where they currently drop off cargo. President Bush signed a bill last year giving Mexican trucks full access to U.S. roads, provided they meet new safety requirements. The measure is a compromise with Congress, with stricter provisions than what the White House had originally sought. The bill requires on-site inspection of Mexican trucking companies before their rigs are given access, and reinspection every 90 days. In addition, it requires electronic verification of the license of every Mexican truck driver crossing the border who is carrying high-risk cargo. The Teamsters union, which represents more than 120,000 truckers, lobbied heavily for the stricter safety rules and has long fought against allowing Mexican trucks on U.S. roads. The union is joined in the lawsuit by Public Citizen, a non-profit consumer advocacy organization, the California Trucking Association, an industry group, and the Environmental Law Foundation, an environmental group based in Oakland, Calif. The plaintiffs say that the Bush administration has failed to address environmental health concerns associated with Mexican trucks, including that fact that many were built before 1994 and were not subject to emissions control regulations in Mexico. ``The greater age of the Mexico-domiciled fleet means that it emits higher quantities of pollutants as a whole,'' the suit says. In addition, the lawsuit says that diesel emissions from U.S. trucks will be dramatically reduced within 10 years because of new engine and fuel standards, but that ``there is no guarantee'' that Mexican trucks will be held to the same standards, including a limit on sulfur in diesel fuel. According to the suit, diesel emissions in the air can cause chronic inflammation in the lung, irritation of the eyes and throat, light-headedness, nausea and cough. Joan Claybrook, president of Public Citizen, said that the Bush administration ``has put the health of millions of Americans at greater risk'' by failing to ``accurately assess the true environmental impact of allowing these trucks from Mexico throughout the United States'' David Longo, spokesman for the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, said the Bush administration would not comment on the lawsuit Wednesday, because,''it's in review.'' He also said that no Mexican trucks will be driving beyond the border area within the next few weeks. ``We haven't processed the first application to operate beyond the commercial zones,'' he said. ``We still anticipate opening the border this summer.'' Under the provisions of the 1994 North American Free Trade Agreement, U.S. borders were to be opened to Mexican trucks and drivers, giving access to the border states by 1995 and full access to U.S. highways by 2000. But the Clinton administration, citing safety concerns and under pressure from labor unions, never allowed the trucks to haul goods directly to their U.S. destinations. Currently, the vast majority of Mexican trucks entering the United States are restricted to within about 20 miles of the border, in designated zones where their cargo is transferred to U.S. trucks. On the Web: To view the Teamsters complaint: www.milberg.com/trucking Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration: www.fmcsa.dot.gov Eunice Moscoso's e-mail address is eunicem(at)coxnews.com ENDIT Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
