By late this evening, the Los Angeles Lakers will have a second-round opponent. By the same time next week, that opponent might well be scrolling through Travelocity, naming its own price for a two-week trip to Cancun. As kind as the playoff fates have been to the Lakers, they have been equally cruel to the San Antonio Spurs and Seattle SuperSonics, who play the deciding Game 5 tonight at the Alamodome. The winner gets to fly to L.A. on Saturday and open the Western Conference semifinals Sunday at Staples Center. The Lakers will be working on six days' rest. The Sonics/Spurs? One of them will land at LAX in bad shape -- not only exhausted by a grinding first-round series but weakened by the loss of key players. Seattle lost budding star Rashard Lewis -- its No. 2 scorer and top rebounder -- to a shoulder injury in Game 3, and his season might be over. San Antonio's David Robinson, crippled by back problems, has logged exactly seven minutes since April 12 and the prognosis sounds bleak -- ``He's doubtful for Friday, he's doubtful for Sunday. He's just doubtful,'' coach Greg Popovich said. Without Lewis, the Sonics are even younger and thinner than they had been. Gary Payton's help will be coming from unheralded Brent Barry, underachieving Vin Baker and untested youngsters Desmond Mason, Vladimir Radmonovic and Predrag Drobnjak. Without Robinson, the Spurs start 6-foot-7 Malik Rose at center and have no one to challenge Shaquille O'Neal. Their scoring leader, Tim Duncan, is coping with the recent death of his father. Their next best player is 19-year-old rookie Tony Parker. Two weeks ago, the Lakers supposedly were vulnerable. Now, the idea of a second-round sweep -- and a 7-0 start to the playoffs for the second year in a row -- seems entirely possible. ``We like our chances against both teams,'' Kobe Bryant said. The Lakers' only concern would be rust from a one-week layoff. But that's nothing new. ``We're used to it this year, as opposed to last year when it was a novelty for us,'' Bryant said. ``We come to practice, we work hard, we go home, we stay off our legs, we rest and recuperate and hopefully we'll have our rhythm for Sunday.'' --Dissed: The topic was Dallas' Dirk Nowitzki and his sudden rise to stardom. The speaker was O'Neal, who rarely praises opponents and who disdains the way players are accorded superstar status without earning it. The discussion ended with O'Neal taking a subtle dig at Kevin Garnett, whose $126 million contract ranks just ahead of O'Neal's, and whose Minnesota Timberwolves were just swept by Dallas. According to O'Neal, Nowitzki is a superstar, ``but I'm not the expert here. You (reporters) are. I mean, because there's a lot of guys that you gave the superstar status to that haven't stepped up to it -- like the highest-paid player in the league.'' 
