A security-minded Congress is considering whether to make states improve and standardize their driver's licenses, alarming privacy groups who see the move as a step toward a national ID card. A bill introduced Wednesday would require states to issue ``smart'' licenses containing a computer chip with a holder's address, driving history, and a fingerprint or other ``biometric identifier.'' The bill's sponsors, Reps. Thomas M. Davis III, R-Va., and James P. Moran Jr., D-Va., say it's designed to make it harder to get a false driver's license. They noted that at least eight of the 19 hijackers involved in the Sept. 11 attacks were able to obtain fake state-issued driver's licenses. The legislation would also provide $315 million to help set up links between computer systems so states can check whether someone applying for a driver's license was denied a license in another state. Sen. Richard J. Durbin, D-Ill., plans to introduce a similar bill in the Senate. ``When I walk into a (driver's license office), whether it is in Illinois, New York, or Georgia, what do they ask to prove my identity?'' Durbin said. ``Is it a birth certificate? Is it a passport? It seems that with very little effort and a minimum amount of money, virtually anyone in America can get a driver's license made.'' A handful of states, including Georgia and Texas, require a thumbprint from applicants. The American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators in Arlington, Va. is working with Durbin as he fine-tunes his legislation. ``Technology is changing all the time and we're taking a look at everything right now,'' said Jason King, an association spokesman. ``What we do know is that the system for getting a driver's license today is a system that is broken and needs to be fixed somehow.'' King, pointing to surveys showing that 87 percent of Americans use their licenses for something other than driving, said it's imperative that security be improved. But critics say the bills would erode individual freedoms while helping the government monitor the movement and business dealings of drivers. ``If this legislation is passed, it won't be long before every American is tracked,'' said John Whitehead, president of the Rutherford Institute, a civil liberties group in Charlottesville, Va. ``These legislators are trying to make us carry the same kind of card people have to carry in communist China.'' Other critics say the measures might make it easier for businesses to collect personal information. They point to the way driver's licenses are being used by some bars and nightclubs. At The Rack, a popular bar in Boston, patrons are asked to hand over their driver's license to a doorman, who swipes them through a scanning machine that flashes a red light if the license is legitimate and its holder is over 21. But the machine also extracts personal details from a magnetic stripe on the back of the license, including a person's name, address, birthday, and even physical attributes such as eye color. The bar can use the information to get a clearer picture of its clientele that can be handy for marketing purposes. About three dozen states issue driver's licenses that include personal data on machine-readable bar codes or magnetic stripes. Some states have adopted privacy rules to restrict the usage and sharing of personal information. In Texas, for example, driver's licenses can be electronically scanned to ascertain a person's age, but the information can't be downloaded to the scanning device. Moran said the computer chips his legislation would require are better than bar codes or magnetic stripes, which he claims can be easily tampered with. Yet he says he has no desire to turn the United States into a ``show me your papers'' kind of country or to create a national database that could be tapped into by marketers. He says the measure is designed only to give driver's licences a new level of integrity and to standardize the patchwork quilt of state guidelines for issuing them. Dan Drummond, a spokesman for Moran, said that while the new licenses would not be a national ID card, consumers might one day use the ``smart'' licenses as an ATM card, a credit card, or for government programs such as food stamps and voter registration. ``It's all up to the individual,'' he said. The possibility of new uses for the smart driver's licenses only makes opponents more nervous. ``This type of thing allows people to capture personal information without you knowing it under the pretense of verifying who you are,'' said Chris Hoofnagle, legislative counsel for the Electronic Privacy Information Center, a public interest research center in Washington. ``What there really needs to be is greater internal security at motor vehicle departments across the country, and not a national ID card.'' Shelley Emling's e-mail address is semling(at)coxnews.com ENDIT Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
