Here are the stories New York Times editors are planning for Page 1, Friday, May 3. The NYT frontpage advisory, with layout description, will move by 7:30 p.m. ET. The night supervisor for The New York Times News Service is Pat Ryan; phone: 888-346-9867 or 212-556-1927; e-mail: patryan(at)nytimes.com. 	MIDEAST-TALKS (Washington) _ A ledeall: Secretary of State Colin Powell said Thursday that preparations were under way for a Middle East conference to take place this summer, but no venue or precise date had yet been set. ``We committed ourselves to the promotion of serious and accelerated negotiations toward a settlement. We discussed how best to begin to prepare for an international conference meeting this summer,'' he said. Powell was speaking after a meeting of the ``quartet'' in Washington _ formed last month and grouping the United States, the United Nations, Russia and the European Union to coordinate Israeli-Palestinian mediation efforts. Other developments. (Summary from wires) (Staff byline TK) 	MIDEAST-CONGRESS (Washington) _ The House and Senate voted overwhelmingly on Thursday in rapid succession to express virtually unqualified support for Israel in its recent military operations, largely brushing aside last-minute attempts by the Bush administration to soften language concerning the Palestinians. The two Congressional resolutions were non-binding, but they put the legislative branch of the American government on record as backing Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's military steps, even as President Bush was calling on Israel to end its ``occupation'' of several Palestinian towns. By Alison Mitchell. 	FRANCE-POLITICS-MOOD (Schirmeck, France) _ This town in the forest is a place of dark secrets _ some new, some old and some underscoring the paradoxes that swirl around the strength here of Jean Marie Le Pen, the extreme right-wing insurgent who will challenge President Jacques Chirac in a run-off vote for the presidency of France on Sunday. The view of some people that there is something deep in the French spirit that has helped fuel Le Pen's rise _ seems to reinforce suggestions that the rightist politician's influence in an arc of France stretching from the Mediterranean, through eastern France and onto the rust-belt of the north-east, may be more nuanced and less easily predicted than was thought. By Alan Cowell. 	With map. 	PRIEST-ABUSE-POLL (Undated) _ American Catholics favor a hard line in dealing with priests who sexually abuse children and teen-agers, saying that such priests should be barred from participating in parish life, and that any accusations of abuse should be investigated by local law enforcement rather than the church, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll. By Robin Toner 	With a graphic. 	RIDGE-SECURITY (Washington) _ The director of homeland security, who has been forbidden to testify to Congress, overruled in White House councils and overshadowed by powerful Cabinet members reluctant to give up their turf, defends his job in an interview, calling himself an enabler, not a ``Pacman trying to gobble up power, money and responsibility,'' He ``briefed'' senators on Thursday at a special meeting in the Capitol, as a bipartisan group of lawmakers announced new legislation to create a Department of Homeland Security, one more sign of the growing questions about Tom Ridge and his job. By Elizabeth Becker. 	With photos, NYT34,36. 	HIGH-PLAINS-DROUGHT (Lamar, Colo.) _ The soil is on the move again in the High Plains, drifting over a swath of the American midsection calcified by drought. For some, it is reviving memories of a time when the earth turned itself inside out. Although water shortages and complaining about the stingy sky are habits of the prairie, this drought is drier _ particularly in the northern High Plains _ than the arid period of the 1930s. In some counties, the dry spell is the worst in more than a century. In eastern Montana, more than a thousand wheat farmers have called it quits rather than try to coax another crop out of ground that has received less rain over the last 12 months than many deserts get. Blinding dust storms have forced drivers off the road, dozens of businesses have folded in withered communities, and the entire state of Montana has been declared a federal disaster area for farmers. By Timothy Egan. 	With photo and graphic. 	WTC-SITE (New York) _ It is nearly done. Through the blur of unnoticed seasons, in an effort without parallel, 1.6 million tons of material from the collapse of the World Trade Center have been dismantled, examined, and carted off to be examined again. That fire-spitting, hellish mound _ all crushed concrete and scorched metal and body parts _ has been reduced, one truckload at a time, to a few piles on a bedrock-bottomed pit. The curtain is about to fall on this mournful ballet. The last of what was the World Trade Center will be carted away by the end of the month, creating profound physical and psychological shifts regarding a singular calamity. The recovery operation that began in Lower Manhattan on Sept. 11 will end _ only because there will be nothing left to dig out _ and a new phase, the rebuilding phase, will begin. By Dan Barry. 	With photo. 	(Editors: All clients receive all budgets, but only full-service clients receive all stories. Please check your level of service to determine which stories you will receive.) 
