Red Auerbach should bring a big fat stogie and a book of matches. Bill Russell should bring his famous cackle and make noise from the loge seats. Sam Jones should bring the photographer's stool he used to fend off Wilt Chamberlain. Kevin McHale should bring his long right arm _ the one he used to swat that shot by Andrew Toney. McHale, Larry Bird, and Robert Parish aren't walking through that door Friday night, but there'll be enough ghosts of the past to lend a helping hand to Celtic youths Antoine Walker and Paul Pierce as they prepare for the biggest game of their lives. Celtics-Sixers. Winner takes the series. Causeway and Canal Streets will be rockin'. If only Johnny Most were around to make the call. He'd know what to say about Allen Iverson. Think of it as Game 7. Sure, it's only Game 5, but in a best-of-five series, Game 5 is Game 7. It's the best game in sports. Two teams battle to a draw, fans get lathered up in two different cities, and all of the principals believe the refs are against them. We learn to really dislike the other guys, maybe because we know too much about them. And then there's one last game. Friday night's joust is the first winner-take-all NBA basketball game in the history of the seven-year old ``new'' building, and it's fitting that Boston's Philadelphia brothers provide the opposition. When it comes to professional basketball, the Celtics invented Game 7 (or 5). Russell never lost one. Russell was on teams that were beaten in the playoffs, but never a Game 7. The Celtic franchise didn't lose its first Game 7 until 1973 when the Knicks beat the Celtics at the old Garden _ only because John Havlicek played with his arm in a sling. When the Celtics took the first two games of this series, it felt like the old days in the old gym. But the Sons of Jim O'Brien looked young and nervous at the finish of Games 3 and 4 in Philadelphia, and now it comes down to a final 48 minutes. ``It's been a great series, and I expect this game to be an absolute war,'' said O'Brien. ``The whole series has been that way. Fiercely contested.'' The Sixers are attempting to become only the seventh NBA team to recover from an 0-2 deficit in a best-of-five. The only Eastern Conference team to perform the trick was the 1990 Knicks, who beat (gulp) Boston three straight times after losing the first two games. Toronto could duplicate the feat, pending Thursday night's decisive Game 5 against Detroit. No one ever expected the Russell teams, or the Bird-Parish-McHale Celtics, to lose a winner-take-all game, but there's considerable local apprehension about Friday night. The Sixers have playoff-tested warriors, and the league's top go-to guy in Iverson. The Celtics are in their first playoff in seven years and made dumb mistakes down the stretch in both losses in Philly. Boston hasn't won any playoff series in 10 years. After practice Thursday, Paul Pierce was asked if he still has confidence. ``Are you serious?'' Pierce answered. ``My confidence hasn't gone anywhere.'' O'Brien echoed the sentiment. ``The only problem I've had with our team confidence this year is sometimes we are overconfident.'' Veteran guard Kenny Anderson certainly didn't sound scared. ``We feel we're the better team,'' said the man in charge of guarding Iverson. ``They feel that way, too, but we know we are better.'' Tony Battie added, ``We wanted to win those two games (in Philadelphia), but it will be sweeter at home.'' Reputations are made in Game 7 (5). Chamblerlain, who labored most of his career in Philadelphia, was strapped with the rap of a guy who could't win the big one. Wilt could average 50 points in a season and still be portrayed as a loser. Walker and Pierce carry a heavy load Friday night. This has been a breakthrough year for the young Celtic stars, particularly Pierce, but they did not get the job done in the closing seconds of the two losses in Philadelphia. Walker missed all six of his second-half 3-pointers in Game 3 and went scoreless in the fourth quarter of Game 4. Pierce had mini-meltdowns at the end of both games, including a killer turnover (one of seven for the game) in the final minute of Game 4. ``I think our team has played a very solid playoff series,'' said O'Brien. ``I am not disappointed or down on our team because we lost two wars in Philadelphia.'' Boston will be down if Pierce and Walker don't come through Friday night. Watching the Bruins and Celtics check out in the first round, in the same week, is not what the region had in mind when we geared up for this celebrated return to the playoffs. Do you believe in omens? Twenty-one years ago Friday, the Bird-led Celtics beat the Sixers in Game 7 at the Garden, 91-90, completing a comeback from a 3-1 deficit. Armed with a pocket full of Hoyo de Monterrey cigars, Auerbach's flying in from Washington Friday afternoon. ``I'm rooting for 'em and I think they're gonna win,'' Red said Thursday night from his home in Washington. ``They're gonna have to get really, really tough. We were beaten a little off the boards down in Philly, though we didn't get any breaks.'' Game 7 (5). Play ball. Light it up. Dan Shaughnessy is a Globe columnist. His e-mail address is dshaughnessy(at)globe.com. 
