Hey there, sunbather! Still unconvinced skin cancer can touch you? Soak up these facts, from the American Cancer Society: Skin cancers make up more than half of all new cancers. More than 1 million new cases will be diagnosed nationwide this year. About 9,600 people die from the disease annually. Melanoma is the fifth most common cancer in men and the sixth most common in women. In recognition of National Skin Cancer Awareness Month, The Gardens mall, The Palm Beach Post and the Richard David Kann Melanoma Foundation have teamed up for a fund-raiser made possible by famous faces. Up for bids: plain white masks that have been decorated and autographed by the likes of Matt Lauer, Sam Donaldson, Barbara Walters, Matthew Perry and Sarah Jessica Parker. ``Will and Grace'' star Debra Messing added pink glitter and a magenta feather to her mask, and chef Emeril Lagasse garnished his with fake grapes, olives and chili peppers. Bidders can view the masks in the mall between Bloomingdale's and Grand Court, 3101 PGA Blvd., Palm Beach Gardens. The auction runs through May 12, and proceeds benefit the melanoma foundation's programs on prevention and early detection. SUITABLE SUITS About half of American women wear size 14 and up, so it makes sense that almost 50 percent of clients who seek wardrobing from the Women's Alliance need professional attire in that range. Yet only 10 percent of clothing donations to the Alliance are plus-size, creating a severe suit shortage for the national organization, which helps low-income women return to the work force (the group's slogan: ``Someone's Future is Hanging in Your Closet''). A new clothing line is designed to fill that gap. The Women's Alliance Collection, in sizes 12 to 6X, includes suits, skirts, pants and other coordinated separates. The collection is created in partnership with TLS Enterprises, a Miami-based manufacturer of catalog clothing for women. How can you help? A donation to the Alliance gives its local member organizations purchasing power. A $35 donation will purchase one two-piece suit from the collection; $45, a three-piece suit; $225, five outfits; and $450, 10 ensembles. Donations to the Women's Alliance can be made online at www.thewomensalliance.org or by sending a check to the Women's Alliance Collection; 3745 N.E. 171st St., Suite 62; Miami, Fla. 33160. THREE POTIONS, ONE LOTION Oh, the summertime dilemma . . . You need sunscreen to keep UV rays at bay. You want a moisturizer to maintain your skin's, well, moisture. And unless you liberally spritz yourself with bug repellent, mosquitoes seem to think you're the Bloodmobile. How do you protect yourself from the elements and Florida's insects without looking like an oil slick? With the debut of Outdoor Activities, Joey New York is promising the ``complete summer safety solution in a bottle.'' Outdoor Activities has an SPF of 20; essential oils that repel fleas, deer ticks and skeeters without the use of DEET; and moisturizing ingredients suitable for face and body. Alas, safety doesn't come cheap _ a 4-ounce bottle is $22. The lotion can be found at Saks Fifth Avenue, Nordstrom and Sephora, or by calling 800-563-9691. Staci Sturrock writes for The Palm Beach Post. E-mail: stacisturrock(at)pbpost.com Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
