Spider-Man seems to be everywhere these days, which is just the way I like it. The movie version of the comic I created 40 years ago with the artist Steve Ditko opens today, and almost everyone I meet asks the same question: Why is Spidey still so popular after all these years? Since my own super powers don't allow me to penetrate the minds of his fans, I will merely offer an educated guess. You may take notes if you wish. Many longtime readers have told me that Spider-Man is the most realistic fantasy character of all. Of course ``realistic fantasy'' is an oxymoron, but I think I know what they mean. Our main man's alter ego, Peter Parker, is perhaps the only superhero who has financial problems, romantic hang-ups and many of the ills the flesh is heir to. He's been known to tear his costume or get an allergy attack while fighting the bad guys. Instead of living in a fictitious Gotham City or Metropolis, he has his digs in good ol' New York City and, when he tires of web-swinging, might be found running after a taxi anywhere from Greenwich Village to the Upper East Side. Another quality that sets Spider-Man apart is his introspection. Poor Spidey can hardly make a move without questioning his motives and wondering if he's doing the right thing. In fact, ``Spider-Man'' was the first comic book to make extensive use of ``thought balloons''; readers know not just what a character is saying, but what he's thinking, too. This allows them to really get to know a character, and the more you know about someone, the more interested you become in that person _ unless, of course, he's dull to begin with. (But naturally that's not true of the wall-crawling wonder!) I have often thought Spider-Man's worldwide appeal also owes something to his costume. Sharp-eyed fans are sure to have noticed that Spider-Man's costume covers every inch of his body. There is absolutely no skin showing beneath his oh-so-trendy red and blue fashion statement. When Steve Ditko first dreamed up our hero's threads, he created one of the most unique designs in comic-book history. But more than that, Spidey's costume is completely user-friendly. Any reader, of any race, in any part of the world, can imagine himself under that costume _ and fantasize that he himself is Spider-Man. I'm not sure we planned it that way, but it's just one of those fortunate coincidences that has made our arachnid-inspired adventurer arguably the most empathetic superhero ever to wiggle a web. Another element that Spidey possesses in abundance is humor. He has long been known for his pithy comments and rapid-fire wisecracks in the midst of battle. The seemingly odd mixture of continual soul-searching and flippant repartee helps to keep the attention of his fans riveted to the adventure at hand. Finally, we mustn't forget the moral dilemmas that so often crop up in Spidey's life. Many are the times he's not entirely certain he's doing the right thing. Instead of seeing everything in black and white, we at Marvel Comics consciously add shades of gray to our little repertory cast of characters. Sometimes the villains aren't all bad and the good guys aren't all good. We pepper the yarns with moral questions _ to give our readers a chance to offer their own answers. So that's how I would explain Spidey's popularity. On the other hand, maybe we just got lucky by creating a hero with a good personality, a guy you enjoy spending time with. There, see how easy it can be? (Stan Lee is the writer and co-creator of ``Spider-Man.'') 
