Gale A. Norton, the secretary of the interior, and Christie Whitman, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, both said they were caught by surprise this week when the EPA issued a letter supporting a ban on snowmobiles in Yellowstone National Park. Norton expressed some irritation to Whitman for failing to notify her of the letter, which was made public while they were at lunch together on Monday, officials said Thursday, and Whitman in turn notified her staff that all such high-visibility matters should be reviewed by her office. The anti-snowmobile stance by one of its own agencies is an embarrassment for the Bush administration. The Clinton administration had recommended the ban, but the snowmobile industry challenged it. The Bush administration, signaling that it wanted to allow continued use of the machines, reopened the matter. Now the EPA position will complicate efforts to keep the park open to snowmobiles. The letter from an assistant regional administrator _ written to the National Park Service during the public comment period on whether to ban snowmobiles in Yellowstone and Grand Teton national parks _ said the exhaust from the machines could violate air quality laws, jeopardize human health and pose a risk to wildlife. The letter recommended that snowmobile access be replaced with access by multipassenger snow coaches, which are like buses on skis. The public comment period closes May 29, and a decision by the park service is expected in the fall. The letter has no binding authority; it was the accumulated scientific analysis of the environmental agency. Spokesmen for the Interior Department and the EPA said neither of their bosses was aware of the letter. Whitman, Norton and Ann M. Veneman, the secretary of agriculture, were having their regular monthly lunch when the letter was released. Only later in the day did Norton hear about the letter and call Whitman to ask why she had not told her about it. The conversation was apparently blunt. ``Norton challenged Whitman as to how could this happen, how she could affirm the same thing that the Clinton administration had said,'' one official said. Joe Martyak, Whitman's spokesman, was equally succinct in saying that Whitman was also in the dark. ``All the people who should have been notified of the snowmobile issue weren't,'' Martyak said. The letter was released by the EPA's Denver regional office. Phil Strobel, a spokesman for the Denver office, said it was signed by Max Dodson, an assistant regional EPA administrator in Denver, on April 23, faxed to park service officials on April 24 and mailed the same day to several county, state and Forest Service officials. It was sent by e-mail and fax on April 29 to people with a standing request with the Denver office to be notified whenever the agency comments on certain issues. Some of those people are members of environmental groups, who notified the news media. ``This letter is entirely consistent with the stance the EPA has had through this entire process,'' which has stretched over three years, Strobel said. Nonetheless, after Whitman heard from Norton, Whitman held a conference call with agency employees throughout the country to tell them that all such matters should come through her office, Martyak said. 
