The agency's top Washington administrators instructed Jefferson Howell, the Johnson Space Center director, to submit a stop-work strategy by Monday, a plan that would cap more than seven years of work on the novel spacecraft that is sometimes referred to as the X-38 or the crew life boat. NASA's Fred Gregory, the agency's Washington-based chief of spaceflight, quietly ordered the shutdown earlier this week. The fate of the rescue craft, however, has been a hot topic in a series of congressional hearings that date back to early 2001, when NASA disclosed the space station was headed toward $4.8 billion over a $25 billion cost cap. In response to the projected overrun, the Bush administration ordered NASA to suspend efforts to enlarge the space station from a three- to a seven-person facility. By curtailing work on the rescue vehicle, NASA estimates it will cut $1 billion from the overrun projection. The space agency has already taken steps to recoup the remaining $3.8 billion by curtailing research aboard the orbital base, halting work on a four-person American crew dormatory and an assortment of other smaller components. Without an American life boat, the space station will rely on Russian-furnished Soyuz capsules for its life boat. The Soyuz is limited to a three-person crew. In his directive to Johnson officials, Gregory said that while the crew rescue craft has been canceled, NASA will pursue a small new and more capable spacecraft that could launch several astronauts to the station as well as fly them back to Earth in response to several emergencies. The emergencies would include a serious illness, fire or a sudden decompression from an impact with a meteoroid or piece of man-made space debris. ``The bottom line is we're looking at a multipurpose vehicle as opposed to a single-purpose vehicle,'' Dwayne Brown, a spokesman for NASA's Washington office of spaceflight, said Wednesday. At the Johnson Space Center, spokesman James Hartsfield said it was still unclear how quickly work on the project would end. The project has about 240 workers, half of them government civil servants and half employed by Lockheed Martin. The civil servants will be reassigned to other jobs at Johnson. Lockheed Martin has already dropped 175 people who worked at NASA in Houston this year, including about 60 assigned to the X-38 work. The 120 people who remain with the project could be dropped or reassigned, said Lockheed Martin spokesman Ron Meder. The move angered U.S. Rep. Nick Lampson, D-Texas, a member of NASA's House oversight committee and whose district includes the Johnson Space Center. ``I am extremely disappointed to hear of these plans _ this is not good for the space program and particularly not good for the international space station. It's clear that this is also a setback for the Johnson Space Center.'' Lampson contends the Bush administration's response to the station's cost overruns has been short-sighted. The loss of the seven-person American rescue craft restricts the station's crew size to three astronauts, too few to carry out the original research agenda, the lawmaker claims. House Majority Whip Tom DeLay, R-Texas, a member of NASA's House appropriations subcommittee, lashed out at NASA administrator Sean O'Keefe last month over the pending cancellation of the space station life boat. ``I'm deeply concerned about the direction you are taking the agency,'' DeLay told O'Keefe. On Thursday, a DeLay spokesman said the lawmaker was not mollified by the prospect that plans for the rescue craft will be combined with a more capable spacecraft that could also launch astronauts into space. ``It's not black and white, right now,'' said spokesman Jonathan Grella. The space agency plans to take two months to complete an internal assessment of a small new spacecraft that would combine the task of launching astronauts to the space station and ferrying them back to Earth in emergency. The plan could combine the effort with NASA's Space Launch Initiative, a $4.85 billion effort started last year at Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Ala., to develop a less expensive successor to the space shuttle. Or it could combine a new transport craft with one of two new expendable rockets developed by the Department of Defense. XXX END OF STORY 
