A day after first-month statistics revealed that home runs were down 19 percent from last season, Mike Cameron single-handedly tried to reverse that trend on Thursday night. Cameron, a center fielder for the Seattle Mariners, slugged a record-tying four home runs at Chicago's Comiskey Park, all in the first five innings. Cameron, who was traded for and replaced Ken Griffey Jr. as the Mariners' center fielder in 2000, became the 13th player in major league history to hit four in a game. He is only the fourth in the American League to do it, the first since 1959, and the fifth to achieve the feat in consecutive at-bats. After connecting twice in the first inning, once in the third and once in the fifth, Cameron, a 29-year-old right-handed hitter, was plunked on the left leg by a pitch from Mike Porzio in the seventh inning. Cameron came up once more, in the ninth, with a chance to become the first to hit five home runs in a game. With the left-handed Porzio still pitching, the first three pitches missed the strike zone as Comiskey fans booed, preferring to see another home run _ the White Sox were losing by 15-4. Cameron took the next pitch for a strike, then fouled off the next, going to a 3-2 count. On the sixth pitch of the at-bat, Cameron swung and drove the ball deep to right field. For a moment, the ball appeared to have a chance to reach the outfield fence again, but it fell a bit short. Jeff Liefer, the right fielder, raced back toward the fence and, as he neared the warning track, he reached up and snared the ball. ``The last one I tried to go for it,'' Cameron, a Georgia native, said afterward. ``I tried to give myself an opportunity to put a good swing on the ball. I did the best I could. I still don't know how Liefer caught that ball out there.'' Cameron, who had five home runs in 91 at-bats this season entering the game, combined with Bret Boone to make some history. They each hit two home runs in the same inning (the first), becoming the first teammates to execute that feat. And they did it with flair. Boone hit his home runs with Ichiro Suzuki on base, and Cameron was the next batter. Both of Cameron's hits cleared the center-field fence, the first against the right-handed Jon Rauch, the second against the left-handed Jim Parque, in the Mariners' 10-run outburst that inning. Cameron, who whacked a career-high 25 home runs last season, had previously hit two home runs in a game six times, most recently April 13 in Texas. But in this game he was not stopping there. Batting against Parque in the third inning, he drove the second pitch into the left-field stands. Boone did not precede that home run with one of his own. Boone, in fact, struck out after Suzuki grounded out. The three batters followed that same scenario against Parque in the fifth. Suzuki grounded out, Boone struck out and Cameron hit yet another home run, this one on a 2-1 pitch over the center-field fence. Cameron, who began his career with the White Sox, joined Lou Gehrig, Pat Seerey and Rocky Colavito as the only American Leaguers to hit four homers in a game. Gehrig, Colavito, Mike Schmidt and Bobby Lowe, who did it for Boston in 1894, were the only players who previously had hit four home runs in successive at-bats. Mark Whiten was the last player to hit four in a game, doing it for St. Louis in 1993. In that game, Whiten tied a major league record by driving in 12 runs. Cameron drove in four. 
