Congress delivered strong bipartisan statements of support Thursday for Israel, with the Republican-led House and Democrat-led Senate tripping over each other to approve non-binding resolutions that were certain to please most Jewish voters. By a 94-2 vote, the Senate approved a resolution saying it ``stands in solidarity with Israel, a front-line state in the war against terrorism,'' adding that it was prepared to provide financial aid to such nations. The House, voting just minutes later, overwhelmingly backed a longer and stronger resolution condemning Palestinian organizations ``campaign of terrorism'' and holding Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat accountable for it. ``Israel has not asked for this war any more than we asked for ours against Al Qaeda and the Taliban,'' Representative Tom Lantos, Democrat of California, said during House debate. ``But when democracies come under terrorist attack, it is morally incumbent upon us, as the world's leading democracy, to express our solidarity.'' The resolutions irked the Bush administration, which _ like its predecessors _ prefers that Congress not get involved in foreign policy declarations while the State Department is conducting delicate negotiations in the Middle East. Nudging from the administration led House Majority Whip Tom DeLay, the chief author of the House measure, to temper the tone of his resolution somewhat. The version the House approved 352-21 urges Congress to take action to ``alleviate the humanitarian needs of the Palestinian people.'' ``It was reasonable language,'' said Representative Thomas M. Davis III, Republican of Virginia, explaining why the clause was included. Asked if the White House approved of the resolution, Davis said, ``I think they're resigned to it.'' White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said President Bush ``understands Congress will speak its mind in a nonbinding fashion and the president will respect that.'' Defending their tamer version, senators said their resolution was a critical statement of support to a beseiged, longtime ally. ``Is America standing with Israel as it defends itself against terrorism? The answer is yes,'' said Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, Democrat of Connecticut and leading sponsor of the Senate measure. A few dissenting members of the House and Senate worried that the resolutions unfairly spared Israel from accountability and were ill-timed, coming right before Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon comes to Washington to meet with Bush. ``It's so unbalanced, so one-sided. We've become the laughing stock of the world,'' said Representative Nick J. Rahall II, Democrat of West Virginia and one of just a handful of lawmakers to vote no on the resolution. ``The last thing we should do is give Mr. Sharon a green light to unleash his total war on the Palestinian people,'' said Representative Dana Rohrabacher, Republican of California. ``We need to bring both sides to the table.'' Congress, particularly the House, has little authority in matters of foreign policy. The Senate has the power to defeat or approve treaties, and appropriators in both chambers can control how much money is distributed in foreign aid. Israel is the biggest single recipient of US foreign assistance. But in matters involving the Middle East, Congress faces a deeply interested domestic audience in the pro-Israel lobby. With President Bush and leading congressional Republicans standing firmly behind Israel, GOP leaders have remarked recently that Republicans might be able to tap Jewish voters and donors, a group previoulsy more sympathetic to Democrats. ``In the United States, the strong support for Israel has come from the right, the extreme right, groups not (normally) allied with the Jewish community,'' said Representative Eliot Engel, Democrat of New York and a leading supporter of Israel. ``I think the right and the Republicans are making strong inroads.'' Thursday's votes, lawmakers said, were as much about domestic politics as they were about international relations. The House hadn't even planned to vote this week until Senate Majority Leader Thomas A. Daschle, Democrat of South Dakota, announced Wednesday the Senate might take up its resolution this week. When House GOP leaders moved their vote to Friday, Daschle responded in kind. Representative Jose Serrano, Democrat of New York, voted several times in the past against such resolutions, but voted yes Thursday. ``I don't have the energy to go back to my district this weekend and explain to New Yorkers why I voted no,'' Serrano said, explaining his change of heart. But he said he hoped pro-Israel lawmakers would set the issue to rest for awhile, acknowledging ``we gave at the office'' already. ``Obviously, it's an election year. Politics is driving this on both sides of the aisle,'' Rahall said. 
