Not the trendy clothes, not dozens of pictures of friends, stuffed animals, or mementos from a full slate of Cascade High School extracurricular activities. Not even the racing memorabilia that reminds Terri of Ashley's tragic fate. Ashley was killed while driving in a racing school at Yakima Speedway last May 3. On Friday, her parents and brother Seth, 13, will mark the day quietly and privately at her graveside. They'll release balloons and sit on the bench they constructed in her honor. A thousand of Ashley's classmates and acquaintances attended her funeral last May, and her friends still drop by the Bergmans' Everett home nearly every day. They telephone often, and even hang out with Seth -- just as Ashley did. So much seems the same, yet the Bergmans' new existence is all about change. They believe Ashley was killed because the car she drove was unsafe. And they are determined to prevent what happened to Ashley from happening to someone else's daughter. There are things Competitive Edge Racing School owner/instructor Randy Koch would like to say, words the Bergmans would like to hear. But communication is tied up in a lawsuit filed by the Bergmans. The sides only talk through lawyers. ``I have lots of thoughts and lots of feelings on this,'' Koch said, ``but none I can share right now.'' Koch had no comment on whether his Woodinville-based school had undergone any significant changes in the wake of Bergman's death. All along, he has denied any wrongdoing and maintained her crash was a one-of-a-kind accident. It is the only fatal accident in the school's seven years. The Bergmans, meanwhile, are channeling their grief into action. They are forming the Ashley Bergman Memorial Foundation, which will award scholarships through the Cascade High School vocal department, where Ashley was a vibrant participant. For the past six months, they have called state officials, trying to solicit someone in authority for an equally compelling cause. Their hope is for some sort of govern- mental oversee of driving schools -- a checks-and-balance system with uniform safety standards for the cars and the facilities that host these schools. At the very least, they say, someone other than a self-interested insurance company needs to be held accountable. When Bergman was killed, there wasn't an ambulance or emergency medical technician on site. Koch's insurance company didn't require one -- and since he subleased the track, Yakima Speedway said Koch's insurance agency, not theirs, set policy. Since the Bergmans didn't immediately request the Yakima Police Department to conduct an investigation, the only agency analyzing the accident is Koch's insurance company. The racing community is small, and the Bergmans know that their quest makes some people uncomfortable. But if it saves a life down the road, they can live with uncomfortable. ``Have we lost perspective of the point here?'' asked Terri Bergman. ``It's not that we're trying to ruin a business, or ruffle feathers around the racing community. We lost our daughter because something wasn't safe. This should never have happened. ``This isn't about crippling the racing industry, but making it stronger. And safer.'' Only in the past few months has Seth been back behind the wheel of his beloved go-kart. He's getting ready to compete this summer at Skagit Speedway and Grays Harbor Raceway, and his parents are trying hard to be enthusiastic. ``We can't snuff out his dreams. It wouldn't be fair,'' Terri Bergman said. Her husband Steve, a 30-year veteran of the Northwest short tracks, has slowly become a regular around the tracks again. He works on the crew for NASCAR Raybestos Northwest Touring Series champ Kevin Hamlin, and plans to compete again this summer -- racing in the Super Stock class at Evergreen Speedway in a car Hamlin owns. ``It wasn't racing that killed Ashley, it was that race car,'' Steve Bergman said. ``The insurance company has offered us money, but I'm not looking for money. We want assurances that something has changed.'' PIT NOTES _PJ Jones, 33, has been hired by Team Menard to compete in the May 26 Indianapolis 500. This will be the Indy debut for Jones, son of 1963 Indy winner Parnelli Jones. He replaces Jaques Lazier, who broke his back while competing in the April 21 Indy Racing League event in Nazareth, Pa. _Jim Harvey Motorsports of Seattle signed Trendwest Resorts for a season-long sponsorship in the Budweiser Unlimited Hydroplane Series. The U-2 Trendwest is expected to name a driver in the next few weeks. _The hydros got a big profile boost this week. ESPN2 will expand its race/highlights telecast from a half-hour to an hour-long show for the six-race season, beginning in June. _Veteran sports car racer and television commentator Bob Akin, 66, died Monday night of massive injuries he suffered in an accident Thursday at Road Atlanta. Akin, a two-time 12 Hours of Sebring winner, was practicing in a Nissan GTP car for an upcoming Historic Sportscar Racing event at the track. 
