Two of the world's leading financial institutions took steps on Thursday to back away from Asian financial markets. With Japan's stock market near 18-year lows, the Goldman Sachs Group and three online brokers said on Thursday that they would close their overnight trading system for individual investors for lack of demand. In Hong Kong, J.P. Morgan Chase said it was laying off more than 100 investment bankers in the region in an effort to cut costs. The move by Morgan was the latest retreat by investment banks and brokerage firms that rushed into the region in 1999 and 2000, when markets from Seoul to Singapore were buoyed by an economic recovery, surging technology shares and big public bailouts for ailing banks. The boom evaporated last year as quickly as it had arrived, and cautious investors piled out of stocks and into bonds and other more stable financial products and hoarded cash. An economic downturn and the sag in stock markets in turn depressed interest in mergers, acquisitions and initial public offerings. In the last year, Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, Societe Generale and ABN Amro, among others, have closed branches in Asia and cut their staffs. In Japan, the demise of the Goldman Sachs' Moon trading system, which it ran with DLJ Direct SFG Securities, a joint venture of Credit Suisse First Boston and Sumitomo Bank; E(star symbol)Trade Securities; and Matsui Securities, is also a blow for brokers hoping to create 24-hour global trading systems. Trading volume in Tokyo, Asia's largest equities market, has fallen steadily since 1999, and night trading attracted very little interest from investors. ``We built products that are ready to be used, but the market just isn't there yet,'' said Orlando Camargo, a spokesman for Goldman in Tokyo. Goldman's system, which was introduced in January 2001, made markets for about 300 different stocks between 5 p.m. and 11:50 p.m. in Japan. But the four brokers running the system rarely handled more than a few dozen trades an evening, involving thousands rather than millions of dollars. At its peak, after-hours trading made up only about 2.5 percent of all daily trading in Japan, and as the market slid in recent months, the proportion fell to 1 percent. Individual investors were part of that exodus. Their share of all trading, which peaked at 29 percent in 1998 and 1999, has fallen to about 20 percent now. With Goldman's exit, the Tokyo market is left with only one after-hours trading system, the one run by Monex, the country's second-largest online broker. Instead of matching orders, as Goldman's did, Monex uses an auction system. Though it can handle trades in more than 3,000 stocks listed on Japan's major exchanges, only about 300 trades a day are executed, worth an average of $500,000. Monex's president, Oki Matsumoto, said that his company had no plans to abandon the overnight market and that he would talk to DLJ and the other online brokers about joining his service. ``I don't think we should open or close a market because of the volume of trades,'' said Matsumoto, a former Goldman Sachs trader. ``For us to cultivate a new market, we have to stick it out.'' J.P. Morgan's patience apparently is waning, though even after the cuts announced on Thursday it will still have some 350 bankers in the region, more than any rival. The company said it would realign its remaining employees to work across industries, products and countries. But there are fewer deals for them to pursue. Mergers and acquisitions in Asia and the Pacific, excluding Japan and Australia, were 45 percent fewer in the first quarter of 2002 than in the comparable period in 2001, according to Thomson Financial. The current pace of announced deals is about one-third the peak levels reached in 2000. As it happens, Asia's stock markets are gathering steam at the moment. Major indexes in Indonesia, South Korea, Thailand and the Philippines are all up more than 20 percent for the year, and even in Japan's struggling market the Nikkei 225 has gained 9 percent. 
