Investigative journalist Deanne Stillman's portrait of the marriage of Robert Blake and Bonnie Lee Bakley, apparently written before Blake was charged with her murder _ and amended to include reference to it _ will appear in the May 23 issue of Rolling Stone. Stillman, whose last book was ``Twentynine Palms: A True Story of Murder, the Marines and the Mojave,'' has dug up some amazing facts about this romantic couple: By various accounts, Bakley was married to anywhere between nine and 100 men. As to Blake, he used to be a regular in Hugh Hefner's social set. Hef apparently crossed him off the list after his problems with the law arose. ``Hef doesn't allow anything that could cause a problem,'' said Mamie Van Doren, former sex symbol and member of that exclusive set. Perhaps to create keepsakes of their romance, both Blake and Bakley taped each other during their relationship. While visiting the grave of Bakley recently, her sister Margerry _ who had sold her story to the Star for $20,000 _ buried some of her sister's makeup. There's much in the piece about Marlon Brando's son Christian Brando, with whom Bakley had some kind of relationship at the same she was seeing Blake. Stillman told TIC that Blake used to say his dream role was the part Brando played in ``Guys and Dolls,'' Sky Masterson. And who ever said luck was a lady? P.P.S. Nominations for the Second World Stunt Awards were announced last week, at about the same time two stunt men claimed that Blake had asked them to kill his wife. The ceremony, to be broadcast by ABC on May 31, includes prizes for best aerial work, best driving, best fight, best high work, best water work, best work with a vehicle, best work with an animal and hardest hit. Perhaps next year's will include best offer turned down. OTHER FEATS: Project Bandaloop, the San Francisco-based troupe that combines rock-climbing and dancing skills and performs overhead and (usually) outdoors, will be cavorting on the glass sides of a 16-story office building in Boston on ``Good Morning America'' Friday, some time around 8:30 a.m. The troupe was in negotiation with the show all last summer, about climbing a New York office tower. Sept. 11 put the possibility on hold. With ``Spider-Man'' mania creeping across the nation, GMA producers decided that the time had come. P.S. This just in from a pharmaceutical company with a purported solution: ``Hollywood Icon Debbie Reynolds Brings Overactive Bladder to the Spotlight.'' BEING BEAUTIFUL: Designer Karl Lagerfeld, who used to weigh 227 pounds and now weighs 135, shared his dieting etiquette with GQ magazine, the latest issue of which focuses on male bodies. ``At dinner parties,'' he says, ``slide the food to the center of the dish and later squeeze it all together on the side of the plate. So as not to offend the host, occasionally put the fork to your mouth and make believe.'' The result? Divine, in his own view. ``Naked, my body looks medieval ... like Jesus on the cross in paintings _ veins, muscles, bones. It's no beefy beach look. I already did that in St. Tropez in the '70s, thank you.'' TWO GIRLS: Comparing former first daughter Chelsea Clinton and presidential niece supermodel Lauren Bush, Washingtonian attempts to answer to the question: ``Who is Europe's `It' girl?'' Both are vegetarian, both have taken ballet lessons since the age of four. Bush's first cover photo was on Town &AMP; Country; Clinton's was on People magazine. Although Bush's biggest perk was a $100,000 Dior gown she wore to a debutante ball in Paris, Clinton scored a $3,000-a-night room at the Hotel Gritti Palace in Venice, where the magazine said she and boyfriend Ian Klaus were registered as ``Mr. and Mrs. Smith.'' FINALLY: Gordon Getty's presenting a new work, ``Young America,'' at the Juilliard Theater in New York on Sunday.  A RULE OF THUMB FOR CASTING ``I have a litmus test for stars. Can you do an impression of him? You can do Jack, Clint, Streisand. But I mean, how do you do Tom Cruise or Tom Hanks?'' - Peter Bogdanovich, whose new movie is ``Cat's Meow,'' in the Boston Globe. 
