The New York Times News Service has scheduled the following money and business articles for release Sunday, May 5. Photo numbers and graphic notes will be added to SUNDAY-FINAL-BUDGET, which will move about 8 p.m. Friday. If you have questions about stories, call (888) 346-9867 or (212) 556-1927. For questions about photos, call (888) 603-1036 or (212) 556-4204. 	(Coded `f') 	ON THE COVER 	LATIN-AMERICA-ECONOMY (Caracas, Venezuela) _ After adopting relatively easy reforms like privatizing airlines, Latin America is at a crossroads. The region's economy is expected to grow only half a percent this year, even less than last year's 0.6 percent growth. The economic slowdowns sparked by political crises in Argentina and Venezuela are the exception, though, not the rule. Strip out Argentina and Venezuela, and Latin America should grow 3 percent this year. There are other bright spots, including the region's giants, Brazil and Mexico, which are both expected to grow by 10 percent or more. By Simon Romero, (2,500 words) 	With photo. 	EBAY (Undated) _ EBay took advantage of the one thing the Internet does uniquely well _ connecting lots of people cheaply. It incurred no extra costs like warehouses and it created the excitement of a casino. With sellers paying a small fee to list items, plus a percentage of the sale price, its business model made eBay profitable from the start and more stable than sites dependent on advertising. Even now, eBay is the one big Internet company that, as run by Meg Whitman, seems to be thriving, often by reversing course as soon as it makes a strategic mistake. How does she do it? By Saul Hansell. (2,500 words) 	Editors: An additional cover story will be added Friday afternoon. 	ADDITIONAL FEATURES 	OFFICE-POLITICS-SERVEN (Undated) _ Lawrence B. MacGregor Serven's specialty is office politics, the people who play them, and the companies who tolerate them. He writes on the subject and consults with companies about it. ``Office politics fills a leadership vacuum,'' Serven explains. ``If you build a unified companywide team, politics won't have a place.'' Serven's mission is to end office politics. He believes that, if a company sets clear rules and performance-based incentives, politics can be all but passe. By Claudia H. Deutsch. (1,500 words) 	With photo. 	HUMAN-CAPITAL-INDEX (Undated) _ Spencer Stuart, one of the biggest executive search firms, has developed the Human Capital Markets Index to measure how much talent is available and how much it is going to cost a company to hire talent. The formula has been used to chart the market for executive talent going back to 1970. Starting at 100, the index peaked in mid-2000 at 495 and had plummeted 45 percent to 272 by the end of 2001. By Dylan Loeb McClain. (1,000 words) 	PROFILE-FIELDS-FORD (Undated) _ Mark Fields, the chief executive of Mazda has been recalled from Japan by Ford Motor to run its global luxury car division. The Brooklyn-born executive came to Ford company from a series of marketing positions at International Business Machines Corp. and is considered a future contender for the Ford chief executive job. By Micheline Maynard. (1,000 words) 	COLUMNS 	MARKET-WATCH (Undated) _ The Market Watch column with subject to come. By Gretchen Morgenson. 	ECON-COLUMN (Undated) _ If you take away government spending, the economy isn't all that strong. By Louis Uchitelle. 	STRATEGIES-COLUMN (Undated) _ Home bias has led many investors around the world to overrate investment prospects in their own country. By Mark Hulbert. 	MARKET-INSIGHT (Undated) _ The Market Insight Q&AMP;A with subject to come. By Kenneth N. Gilpin. 	With photo. 	INVESTING 	INDIA-ALCOHOL (Bangalore, India) _ Alcoholic beverage companies the world over are eying India as a potentially lucrative market. The population is enormous, the number of drinking-age Indians is growing and an increasingly affluent middle class is thirsty for foreign spirits. By Saritha Rai. (1,200 words) 	With photo. 	STEEL (Undated) _ North American steel companies have been battered but U.S. tariffs on steel imports are helping them compete. Prices for hot-rolled steel sheet, the kind used for motor vehicle bodies and appliances, have climbed steeply from $215 a ton in November to $290 in April. Prices for May are widely expected to top $300 a ton. Companies in Canada and Mexico may be strong choices for investors because they benefit from the tariffs, and also have very low costs. By Bernard Simon. (1,300 words) 	With photo. 	TOPPS-BASEBALL-CARDS (Undated) _ In an effort to replace some of the revenue it has lost with the decline of the Pokemon phenomenon, Topps is urging adults to invest in a new type of baseball cards, IPOs or initial player offerings. The online venture is the latest effort to rejuvenate Topps, a 66-year-old company that sells Bazooka bubblegum and Ring Pop candy as well as sports and Pokemon cards. In recent years, Topps itself has been a lackluster investment. By John Kimelman. (800 words) 	AUTOMOBILES 	AUTOS-SPORT-ECONOMY (Undated) _ Carmakers still hatch plots to entice the young. These days, those strategies often include a sport-tuned, under $20,000 version of a conventional compact car. Nissan and DaimlerChrysler's entries suggest how much value the industry must deliver to keep a foot in the door. Peter Passell reviews two sporty variations on economy-car themes: the Dodge Neon R/T and the Nissan Sentra SE-R Spec V. (1,200 words). 	With photo. 	AUTOS-EMAIL-HOAX (Undated) _ An email hoax has caused headaches for several import car companies, who are accused, falsely, of failing to contribute to 9/11 charities. Despite efforts to debunk its message, the email continues to spread. By Susan Stellin. 700 words. 	SHORTS 	SEC-SUMMIT (Undated) _ The Securities and Exchange Commission will hold an ``Investor Summit'' on May 10 for investors who want to comment on the agency's response to a crisis in public confidence in the stock market. By Jeff Sommer. (200 words) 	PRENUPTIAL-SURVEY (Undated) _ A new study shows there are plenty of irreconcilable differences on the subject of prenuptial agreements. Most people were lukewarm toward the agreements and 15 percent of those surveyed thought a prenuptial agreement would doom a marriage to failure. By Vivian Marino. (290 words) 
