LA JOLIE VITA Angelina Jolie has always been a one-man woman, but in the case of her new movie ``Life or Something Like It,'' she is definitely a two-timer. Don't freak out, Billy Bob _ those two guys are Domenico Dolce and Stefano Gabbana, who created an entire wardrobe for Jolie's ambitious newscaster character, Lanie Kerrigan, in the romantic comedy. ``We met Angelina a year ago when she wore our white tuxedo to the Oscars _ and even though she doesn't speak any Italian, we got along immediately,'' said Gabbana from Milan. ``We got a phone call from Angelina and the producers to make her a full wardrobe, complete with accessories, which we happily accepted because the clothes were in sync with what we do: sexy and feminine. ``We're not costume designers, but we're happy to do these things as long as the requests aren't too banal, but reflect what we design. We're not interested in designing a long silk chiffon pailetted gown because there are many other designers that do that.'' It's the first time the seemingly wild child Jolie has played a woman whose lifestyle is so antithetical to her own. Her character comes from blue-collar roots but when she hits Seattle and becomes a big-time TV reporter, she dons the requisite aspiring wardrobe to prove it: perfectly cut suits and trenchcoats. ``I've never done a comedy,'' Jolie says, ``and when I read it, I was thinking there's no way I could possibly play a woman like this because I'm far too serious. Then I started to play with the idea of how she'd look, and I couldn't get the story out of my head.'' ``Life or Something Like It'' costume designer Aggie Rodgers (``Rock Star,'' ``Mr. Holland's Opus,'' ``Holy Man'') transformed Jolie from a brunette to a platinum blonde '50s-style bombshell. Sure enough, the final Lanie is reminiscent of the very first platinum-teased ``Bubble Cut Barbie,'' who wears body-conscious clothes like pencil skirts and jackets with narrow rib cages. ``Angelina was clear from the beginning that that's how she wanted to look and to wear Dolce &AMP; Gabbana, and it was a really good choice,'' Rodgers says. ``They're beautiful suits, strong colors and great textures that fit her just perfectly.'' ``Angelina is a perfect size 40 (size 8),'' Gabbana adds, ``We were able to pull many looks from the spring-summer 2002 collection, and the rest we took from the archives and made especially for her. There are white linen skirt suits, animal-printed knitwear and pistachio-green coats.'' Due to the film's tight shooting schedule, one of the challenges for Rodgers was to make sure the Italian special deliveries arrived precisely on time. ``There were a couple of instances,'' she recalls, ``when literally the Fed Ex arrived, Angelina's clothes came out of a box and then she'd slip into wardrobe and speak her lines.'' Obviously, the results were worth it. Finally _ fashion on the big screen worth leaving the couch and your ``Sex and the City'' reruns for. WHO WEARS THE PANTS? Three of Europe's top women's wear designers are wrestling with serious gender issues. Almost simultaneously, John Galliano, Alexander McQueen and Balenciaga's Nicolas Ghesquiere have announced plans to develop men's wear at their respective houses. This summer, McQueen, who got his start in fashion as an apprentice on Savile Row, will introduce a line of bespoke men's wear with the venerable tailors H. Huntsman and Sons that will be sold at Huntsman in London and McQueen's New York flagship, due to open in July. Coincidentally, Ghesquiere is offering his men's wear for fall: a small wardrobe of pants, jackets, coats and knits. And Galliano has said he will show his own men's wear next year, ``clothes that men will want to wear and that women will want to tear off them,'' he boasted. The race to dress both genders is turning into a veritable smock fight. Galliano's gesture is widely perceived to be a sartorial riposte to the storm of attention showered on Hedi Slimane, who designs the male counterpart to Galliano's women's collections at Christian Dior. Slimane's new men's wear flagship for Dior in Milan has been drawing a surprising number of female customers, and he's made no secret of his ultimate desire to design for women. Now, boys... PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE Australian pop sensation Kylie Minogue ruffled a few designer feathers during the U.S. promotion of her new album, ``Fever.'' As part of a segment she was filming for the VH1 show ``Fresh,'' Minogue set up a visit to try on clothes and mingle with the models backstage at the New York fashion show of Zaldy, who has dressed Jennifer Lopez, Gwen Stefani and Janet Jackson for various appearances. But when she and her crew showed up, they were less than gracious to the designer and his staff, disrupting the tech rehearsal and refusing to tape the designer or take photographs, apparently fearing a conflict of interest because of a contract with D&AMP;G to wardrobe Minogue's spring concert tour. If that weren't enough to leave Zaldy and his staff feeling used, Minogue turned up at the Milan showing of Dolce &AMP; Gabbana a couple of weeks later and offered plenty of sound bites on the designers. ``They understand everything from rock 'n' roll to pop 'n' roll,'' Minogue gushed. ``Their clothes deserve to be onstage.'' LES CAGES AUX FASHION If Wayne Newton and Siegfried &AMP; Roy can pack in Las Vegas audiences night after night, why not Pierre Cardin? When the endlessly entrepreneurial designer recently brought his retrospective to Sin City for an elaborate runway presentation staged for an apparel trade show, he was struck by the idea of re-creating the event there on a regular basis, perhaps twice nightly. He showed about 100 looks at the Joint inside the Hard Rock in February, from trumpet coats and helmet hats to sci-fi satellite skirts and men's cosmonaut suits. ``I want to be the first to do haute couture in Vegas,'' said the designer, who is reportedly in talks with management from the Bellagio, Paris and Venetian hotels about becoming the next big attraction. ``The runway show is not just fashion, it is entertainment.'' If the hotels balk at the proposal, Cardin can always make his mark on the town by opening another outpost of his restaurant Maxim's _ and then feed the masses as well as inspire them. QUE PASA? Talk about bad planning. Penelope Cruz and Tom Cruise both made stops at the U.S. Embassy in Madrid this month but the two never crossed paths. She was recently in town for the European launch of Ralph Lauren's latest fragrance Glamourous, of which she is the face. He was there promoting ``Vanilla Sky'' a few weeks earlier and spent an afternoon at the embassy just hanging out. For Cruz, the embassy visit was a little more festive with a 60-person dinner in the formal dining room. While it poured outside, festivities reigned inside, as guests including Spain's First Lady Ana Asnar, Nati Abascal, the Countess of Romanones and Jose Toledo dined on spinach-wrapped sole. But in true Spanish style, dinner started late and guests didn't leave until nearly 2 a.m. _ all holding fresh bottles of Glamourous and diamond necklaces, courtesy of Senor Lauren. CLOSING IN ON CLAUDIA Word from London has it that Claudia Schiffer will marry her British fiance, film producer Matthew Vaughn, on May 25, somewhere in Britain, although the location is still a secret. Meanwhile, according to the Italian press, Schiffer will wear a Valentino made-to-order gown. Italian paparazzi spotted the model coming out of the couturier's palazzo in Rome. The ring? Bulgari, of course. ``It's a private affair and we are not giving out any information,'' Schiffer's spokeswoman said. The house of Valentino was mum on the subject, too. 
