No sideswiping taxis, no fume-belching buses, no zigzagging skaters, no oblivious jaywalkers, no manic bike messengers. One day a year, bicyclists in New York City can negotiate the streets, highways and bridges of the five boroughs without many of the usual distractions. That day this year is Sunday, when 30,000 riders are expected to take part in Bike New York, the car-free, 42-mile pedal parade that is the nation's largest bicycle rally. ``It's become a great event, like the New York City Marathon,'' said Martin Nichols, manager of Bicycle Habitat, a retail store in Manhattan. Like the marathon, Bike New York attracts thousands of visitors from out of state and overseas. But because it is not a race, there is no prize money, no major television coverage, minimal policing, few spectators and, in the past, a casual atmosphere. This year is the event's 25th anniversary, and there are a few tacks in the road, due mostly to security concerns and to economics. In previous years, thousands of so-called bandits, participants who did not pay the entry fee ($30 to $35 for adults, $15 for children), sneaked into the pack, helped themselves at three food stops and enjoyed the thrill of cruising on the FDR Drive and on the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge. But this year the military has told organizers to weed out any riders not wearing Bike New York vests before they cross the Verrazano, because the finish line is at a Coast Guard installation, Fort Wadsworth in Staten Island. In response, Bike New York, a nonprofit organization formed by American Youth Hostels, the ride's original sponsor, has hired 20 private security officers to supplement its 600 marshals and 600 other volunteers. ``We want to do this in the most gentle way,'' said Pam Tice, the ride's executive director. ``We're hoping it will work. The delays won't be long.'' (By comparison, the New York City Marathon, with about the same number of entrants, deploys about 12,000 race-day volunteers and is patrolled by 2,000 police officers.) The police will play no role in checking for vests, said a department spokesman, Sgt. Kevin Hayes, although the department has assigned officers for crowd control, traffic and security. Tice said her organization was giving the police a list of entrants. The tour begins just a few blocks from ground zero. (BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) Last year, this location was the site for the accompanying New York City Bicycle Show for consumers and the trade. It drew about 15,000 people over three days to its location on the mezzanine of the north tower of the World Trade Center. After Sept. 11, the show's promoter scrambled to find a site for this year's show, which ended Thursday at the Penn Plaza pavilion. Companies including Schwinn, Cannondale, Specialized, Trek, Giant and small custom bike builders displayed their latest models. (END OPTIONAL TRIM) While the bulk of the Bike New York riders are from the five boroughs, New England and the mid-Atlantic states, the tour attracts several thousand cyclists from elsewhere. Anne and Don O'Connor made plans to fly in from Britain to join the ride, to see their daughter, who moved to New York just before Sept. 11, and to ``show some solidarity with the city.'' The Tour de France it's not. Celebrities in attendance? ``Um, Cousin Brucie,'' said Tice, referring to the longtime disc jockey. Iris Weinshall, commissioner of the city's Department of Transportation, is also expected. Bicycling advocates have given her credit her for improving the event. For the first time, Transportation Alternatives, a watchdog group, gave the city an A on its annual report card for opening all five East River bridges to bicycles and for completing the Hudson River greenway, a paved trail from the Battery to the George Washington Bridge, among other improvements. (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.) ``We're seeing a lot of enthusiasm and smart planning, and we're hoping this continues,'' said Noah Budnick, Transportation Alternatives project director. The tour and related show kick off almost a month of bicycling events in New York. They supplement year-round efforts by Bike New York, the city, the police and Transportation Alternatives to promote safe cycling and to rehabilitate reckless riders. There are bike rodeos to teach safety skills, tours of bike lanes and greenways, and patrols to educate those who career on sidewalks, pedal against traffic or fail to yield to pedestrians. Andrew Vesselinovitch, the Transportation Dbicycle program director, said he hoped that with the release of the new edition of the official New York bike map this week, along with Bike New York and other guided tours, ``people will learn that it's as comfortable out on the street as they would like it to be.'' He added: ``The more intrepid bikers there are out there, the better it is for those out only occasionally. Motorists become more aware.'' Even without cars, Bike New York is not without mishaps. Tice said there were scores of minor accidents every year and a few major ones. ``The most popular bone to break is the clavicle,'' she said. Medics on Bikes, under the direction of Geoffrey Doughlin, of Jamaica Hospital Medical Center in Queens, will be on hand to attend to the fallen. Over the years there have been three deaths during the ride, two from heart attacks and one from a cyclist's speeding out of control. 
