Saturday's 128th running of the event at Churchill Downs will mark the fourth race since Mohammed's bold prediction. Unless Essence of Dubai pulls off a mild upset, Godolphin will still be looking for its first Derby win. Since 1999, Godolphin has spent millions on talented young horses, hoping to develop a Derby winner. The stable has not finished better than sixth. Adding to the intrigue is the fact Godolphin insists on its own methods of preparing for the Derby, ignoring the traditional paths that have produced winners of the race for more than 100 years. Last year, Godolphin had 26 2-year-olds in training with the sole intent of reaching the Derby. Of the 26, seven were bred by Godolphin, while 19 were purchased at auction for a total of $19.6 million. Essence of Dubai, a $2.3 million purchase, is the only one to make it. ``This horse has a better chance than what we brought here before,'' said Saeed bin Suroor, Godolphin's primary trainer. ``We think he is very suited to the Kentucky Derby.'' Essence of Dubai already has one advantage _ he has a victory at the Derby distance of 1\ miles. He is the only horse of the 20 in Saturday's field to have done that. He won the UAE Derby in Dubai, where he trained over the winter, along with Godolphin's other hopefuls. It is that issue _ preparing the horses in Dubai rather than traditional American prep races _ that makes the Godolphin prediction seem so outlandish. ``We think this is the best way for us,'' said Suroor. ``We can keep the horses in Dubai where we can monitor them every day. And we've learned from the last three years.'' Godolphin has made changes since 1999. The past two years, the stable has sent a large number of promising 2-year-olds to trainer Eoin Harty, a former assistant to Bob Baffert who helped develop both of Baffert's Derby winners. The horses run under Harty in California as 2-year-olds, then ship to Dubai for the winter, where Suroor takes over. In the past, Godolphin's horses would race against each other in unofficial trials once and then come to the United States. Now, the horses get two starts as 3-year-olds in more official races open to outsiders. The top Derby prospects then return to the United States a few weeks before the race. While Godolphin's preparations have won them almost every major race in the world, the Derby has remained outside the stable's grasp. ``They think they know more about it than anybody else,'' said author Jason Levin, whose book From the Desert to the Derby chronicles the Godolphin bid to win the Derby. ``Sheikh Mohammed wants to prove that he can win the world's most famous race his way. If he were to run the horses in traditional American prep races, it wouldn't be as satisfying. He wants to prove everyone else wrong.'' Mohammed is part of the ruling family of Dubai, a tiny Middle Eastern country that is roughly the size of Austin. His family made its fortune in the oil business, and it has become one of the most successful racing operations in the world. But the oil is running out in Dubai, so Mohammed has been trying to develop the country into a tourist destination. He created the world's richest horse race, The Dubai World Cup, to bring attention to his country. He includes Dubai in the name of all his most promising horses, in hopes that a Derby winner would be a free advertisement. But it could backfire. Money used in terrorist attacks has been traced to banks in Dubai, which until recently had no laws against money laundering. Mohammed has only said ``it's been taken care of,'' but a victory in the Derby would likely bring more questions about the country's involvement. Politics aside, Godolphin would like nothing more than to win the race. ``Winning the Derby is our target,'' said Suroor. ``This is now our No. 1 goal.'' As it is for every horse owner in America. But the lure of the Derby also has attracted Godolphin's greatest worldwide rival, Coolmore. Michael Tabor, who lives in Monaco, is the money behind the Ireland-based Coolmore. He won the Derby in 1995 with Thunder Gulch, and campaigns horses in the United States and Europe. Coolmore also will try to win this year's Derby in an unconventional fashion, sending out Johannesburg and Castle Gandolfo. The horses have made only one start each as 3-year-olds in Europe. The horses will be trying to buck a pretty strong trend _ 44 of the last 45 Derby winners have had at least three official prep races as 3-year-olds. Still, Johannesburg won the Breeders' Cup Juvenile last year in his only U.S. start. His career has looked a lot like that of Arazi, who took an almost identical path the to 1994 Derby, failing badly as the heavy favorite. ``Ideally, if he was trained in America, he would have two or three runs before the Derby,'' Tabor said. ``But he is not trained in America. And to get him over to run in prep races in America is just not practical.'' It's hard to argue with the worldwide success of Godolphin and Coolmore. And they are finding their legs in America _ Coolmore won the top 2-year-old colt race with Johannesburg, while Godolphin took the Breeders' Cup Juvenile fillies with Tempera. Can they do the same with the Derby? ``Obviously, we think we can win or we wouldn't be here,'' said Demi O'Byrne of Coolmore. ``Both of our horses are very good right now.'' It should come as no surprise that Godolphin and Coolmore are in competition to win the Derby ``their way.'' The two power brokers have gone head-to-head in every major race in the world, as well as at yearling auctions. ``They are our main competition,'' Tabor said. ``That's just the fact of the matter. It is certainly not personal. I'm sure they love to beat us and we certainly love to beat them. But at the end of the day we know we're not going to win all the time, and neither are they.'' Will they win this time? ``It's not impossible,'' said Levin. ``These are remarkable horses, but they need everything to go right. Obviously, this is Godolphin's best chance so far. ``They will win the Derby someday. The only question is how many billions will they have spent to get there.'' 
