Buried deep beneath the wheat fields and factories of this fading industrial city are untold numbers of ancient relics _ royal tombs, decorative bronze vessels, jade ornaments and human sacrificial pits. More than three millennia ago, it was known as Yinxu, the last capital of the Shang Dynasty. While much has already been discovered since archaeological work began here 74 years ago, including evidence of the first Chinese writing, much about the Shang remains a mystery. Vast tracts have not been surveyed, research is stagnated by a lack of resources and archaeological treasures are threatened by rampant construction projects. Chinese leaders are fond of telling foreign visitors that their country has a glorious 5,000-year history. Yet archaeologists have barely been able to establish its existence much further back than 4,000 years. Countless archaeological wonders are being neglected and, at worst, are at risk of being damaged or lost forever. Less than 5 percent of Yinxu (pronounced ``EEN-shoo'') has been excavated, and many known sites have been damaged by developers who ignore laws on protection of relics, said Tang Jigen, director of archaeological work at Yinxu. The area in China under most immediate threat is Three Gorges, where a controversial dam on the Yangtze River will submerge more than 1,200 archaeological sites when it is completed in less than 10 years. The identified sites include more than 100 dating from the Stone Age and nearly 500 dating back more than a millennia and are believed to hold Buddhist carvings, temples, stone tools and innumerable other relics. Many more relics are expected to be uncovered as China carves up the land during work on several major projects, including a 2,500 mile-gas pipeline from Xinjiang to Shanghai and a 680 mile-railway into Tibet. Even the state-run China Daily has voiced concern. It quoted experts last year urging the government to invest more money in rescuing relics and protecting them from developers and lawbreakers. But at least one expert acknowledged that it will be difficult if not impossible to enforce protection laws on these projects. ``Operators failing to abide by the law may pose a threat to relics, especially at county level, where government supervision is relatively loose,'' the paper quoted Han Wei, head of the Shaanxi province Archaeological Research Institute, as saying. In 1999, scientists in Guizhou province in southwestern China found fossils of 14 dinosaurs, but had enough funding to dig up only 10 of them. When they returned last year, the site, which was supposed to have been under the supervision of the local relic protection bureau, had been ruined by a construction company and the remaining bones were lost. Relic bureaus _ from the national to municipal level _ are among the least powerful and most cash-strapped of government agencies. In Anyang, developers must pay for preliminary surveying and certification from the bureau that the site where they wish to build does not have archaeological artifacts. But the rules are easy to skirt. ``I of course don't think such a system is enough for protection of all possible sites,'' Tang said. ``Big companies usually do well at obeying the law, but some small companies sometimes ignore the rules.'' Anyang, a city of less than 1 million surrounded by farmland, has long sought out its destiny in industry. It is home to China's largest maker of television tubes, one of the country's largest steel factories, and mineral and chemical plants. But with many smaller firms going bankrupt in recent years, farmers barely getting by and the number of unemployed workers rising, city officials decided Anyang's future lay in its past. This year the city applied to the United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) to designate Yinxu as a World Cultural Heritage site. ``The Yinxu ruins rewrites Chinese history and even world history,'' said Li Yangsheng, the city's deputy secretary-general. ``That's not an exaggeration.'' Although China has its own system for designating national landmarks, often it is not until a site gets the nod from UNESCO that the much-coveted foreign tourist dollars start pouring in. China has 27 sites on the World Heritage list, including the Terracotta Warriors in Xian, the Great Wall and the Buddhist grottoes at Dunhuang. Anyang has spent $24.2 million on its UNESCO bid, a considerable amount for a small city in Henan, one of China's poorest provinces. Some of the money came from ``voluntary'' contributions made through workers' paycheck deductions. Most of it has gone to moving families and businesses out of the protected zones and resettling them elsewhere. Success is far from certain. Anyang is competing against several other sites in China and officials acknowledge the visual appeal of Yinxu is lacking. The best items, especially the bronzes and oracle bones, are either still below ground or are in museums on Beijing, Taiwan or overseas. Tang notes that the archaeologists at Yinxu receive less than $5,000 annually for their operating budget, which has to cover bills, hiring of temporary workers and upkeep of relics. ``If I'm low on funds, I can't turn on all the air conditioning,'' which is essential for preservation, he said. As for the research, while he gets some project grants from domestic and overseas sources, it is not nearly enough for all areas he wants to explore. For example, still unknown about the Shang are how big the population was, why they moved their capital to Yinxu and why they performed so many human sacrifices. The Chinese archaeologists also lack the money for genetic testing to prove a key point: that the inhabitants of Yinxu were indeed the ancestors of today's Chinese people. Tang said some Western scientists have used DNA testing to conclude the population at Yinxu had European blood. ``Judging from all the evidence we have so far, such as physical measurement, writing system, material culture and ritual practice, the Shang people are exactly the direct ancestor of modern Chinese,'' Tang said, but he cannot afford to prove his theory. A thousand years before the Emperor Qin unified China, the Shang rulers had a slave society. Its two main preoccupations were human and animal sacrifices and war with neighboring tribes. Archaeologists have found elaborate royal tombs, pottery, weapons, chariots and musical instruments. But the most important finding has been the oracle bones, usually turtle shells or ox bones, which are carved with the earliest writing found in China. They were discovered in 1899 when a university professor went to the pharmacy for ``dragon bones'' to grind up for medicine and noticed strange characters carved on them. Experts around the world have since dedicated their lives to deciphering the ancient hieroglyphics, which evolved into modern Chinese writing. Of about 4,500 characters, less than 2,000 have been identified. Two years ago, Chinese archaeologists working with experts from the University of Minnesota discovered Huanbei Shang City, which, at 1.8 square miles, is the largest walled Shang city found so far. The Shang was eventually brought down by corruption and drinking, according to Jiao Zhiqin, an archaeologist with the Anyang Museum. Julie Chao can be contacted at juliec(at)coxnews.com. ENDIT Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
