While you were (understandably) not looking, a strange and wonderful thing happened to the National Basketball Association. It got better. You, me, all of us, were spoiled. The 1980s were a glorious time for the world's greatest basketball league. There were great players, great teams, and great games. Too great, perhaps. Everyone wanted to sup at the table. ``It's the reverse of the Groucho Marx theory,'' said the high pooh-bah, David Stern. ``If everyone wants to join our club, maybe we should let them in.'' And so the NBA expanded. And expanded. Concurrent with this, the Pistons showed how to win with defense and, um, a dash of thuggery. And Phil Jackson won championships by focusing on Michael Jordan, Michael Jordan, and, when all else failed, Michael Jordan. It was all Michael, all the time, and no one noticed the team was actually pretty boring when Michael didn't have the ball. The Bulls were efficient, but they certainly weren't any fun. There were too many teams, and too many coaches who hated offense (especially fast breaks, which, if you didn't know better, you would have assumed were outlawed), and too many one-dimensional players, and it all became unwatchable. The two Houston (i.e. non-Michael) championships were painful to watch, and if you want a standard of boredom for all times, how about San Antonio vs. New York? So I understand perfectly if you eliminated the NBA from your sports menu. The league was not worthy of your interest. But now it is. No, it's not 1984, and there isn't a team approaching the majesty of either the Celtics or the Lakers, two clubs that can now boast of four Hall of Famers (Kareem, Magic, Larry, and Kevin), plus several others in waiting (Worthy, the Chief, D.J.), but the world should know that the league bottomed out three or four years ago and is now positioning itself for a second Golden Age, with a new roster of stars who will one day be taking their place alongside the Cousys, Mikans, Russells, Wilts, Oscars, Jerrys, Elgins, Docs, Magics, Kareems, Larrys, and Michaels. They announced the All-NBA teams Wednesday. In a league that has always prized experience above all, nine of the 15 players selected as first-, second-, or third-team all-stars were part of the new wave that is reinvigorating the NBA. I am talking about first-teamers Tim Duncan, Kobe Bryant, and Tracy McGrady; second-teamers Kevin Garnett, Dirk Nowitzki, and Allen Iverson; and third-teamers Paul Pierce, Ben Wallace, and Jermaine O'Neal, all of whom have entered the league since 1996 and all but Wallace are 26 or under (Wallace being 27). This is tip-of-the-iceberg stuff. There are busloads of 26-or-under hoop talent who are as good, or very nearly as good, as this bunch. In alphabetical order, this list includes: Shareef Abdur-Rahim (25), Ray Allen (26), Jonathan Bender (21), Mike Bibby (23), Elton Brand (23), Vince Carter (25), Baron Davis (23), Steve Francis (25), Richard Hamilton (24), Antawn Jamison (25), Raef LaFrentz (25), Rashard Lewis (22), Corey Maggette (22), Stephon Marbury (25), Shawn Marion (23), Kenyon Martin (24), Desmond Mason (24), Morris Peterson (24), Quentin Richardson (22), Peja Stojakovic (24), Wally Szczerbiak (25), Jason Terry (24), Tim Thomas (25), Hidayet Turkoglu (23), Keith Van Horn (26), Antoine Walker (25), and Jason Williams (26). That's without mentioning this year's bountiful rookie crop, which features the likes of Pau Gasol (21), Jason Richardson (21), Shane Battier (23), Eddie Griffin (19), Vladimir Radmanovic (21), Richard Jefferson (21), Jamal Tinsley (24), Tyson Chandler (19), Eddie Curry (19), Jason and Jarron Collins (23), and the frightening jouer Francais, Tony Parker (19). There are teams you actually want to see. What basketball fan wouldn't want to watch Dallas and Sacramento battle for seven games? This will be San Antonio-Denver, circa 1985, with both teams actually approaching the series with an eye toward outscoring the other guy. What a novel concept! God bless Don Nelson and Rick Adelman, a pair of retro coaches who are actually allowing their high-spirited athletes to think in terms of offense every once in a while. Wouldn't it be great if one of these teams actually won it all? We haven't had a truly enjoyable champion since the 1988 ``Showtime'' Lakers, a team directed by some guy named Pat Riley and choreographed by Magic Johnson. I wonder if this Riley fellow in Miami is related to the one who used to coach in LA? He certainly has no professional similarities. But if either Dallas or Sacramento manages to defeat the Lakers, and then takes out whichever outgunned Eastern Conference team that happens to show up, people would pay attention. Sports are incessantly derivative. For 13 years, the winning formula has been to concentrate 80 percent to 90 percent of your energy on defense while trying not to make too many mistakes on offense. Dallas and Sacramento do it the old-fashioned way: They want to blow you out of the gym. If one of them wins, people will fall in step. That's a lock. And we will be the beneficiaries. For years, conservative coaches have been strangling the life out of the game, but now there are cracks and the reason is that the league is now being populated with undeniable young offensive talent. Look at the Celtics. Jim O'Brien preaches the requisite defense-first approach, but he does nothing to stifle Messrs. Pierce and Walker at the other end, and why should he? They are major offensive talents. So are the Bryants, Nowitzkis, McGradys, Duncans, Garnetts, Francises, O'Neals (Jermaine), Allens, Marburys, Marions, Carters, Jamisons, Stojakovics, etc. The league now has everything but centers, and that's another story for another time. (Jao Ming will soon be to the rescue.) But midsized and small-sized stars are in enormous supply. Take a look. Did you see what Baron Davis did to Orlando? That lad is a star. They're all over the place. When a Peja Stojakovic cannot make even third-team all-league, the NBA is in very good shape. And Tony Parker? Mon dieu! The sludgeball of the '90s is history. The real NBA is creeping back. You might consider checking it out. Bob Ryan is a Globe columnist. His e-mail address is ryan(at)globe.com. 
