Though situated in Ontario only 20 minutes from the thunderous roar of Niagara Falls, it is impossible not to feel light years away from its touristy neighbor up river the moment you enter Niagara-on-the-Lake. Visitors flock to this quiet village to take in the Victorian architecture, tour the nearby wineries, or visit battle sites from the War of 1812. But the main reason people return to Niagara-on-the-Lake year after year is the theater. The Shaw Festival, held from the beginning of April to the end of November, specializes in the works of George Bernard Shaw (1856-1950) and his contemporaries, showcasing, in the words of the festival's artistic director, Christopher Newton, ``plays about the beginning of the modern world.'' Among others whose works are regularly featured are Noel Coward, Oscar Wilde, Lillian Hellman, Arthur Miller, Anton Chekhov and Agatha Christie, as well as the music of Gershwin and Porter. If you come, be sure to book ahead. While roughly a dozen productions are performed each season in three different theaters, the sites are not large (about 1,400 seats in total) and at the height of summer tickets can be scarce. Friday 5:30 p.m. A Walk Back in Time Take a stroll down Queen Street, which could serve as a Victorian-era film set with its colorful storefronts, carved facades and hanging flower baskets. Start at the Clock Tower, built to commemorate veterans of the two world wars, and follow the street northwest toward Lake Ontario. When you get to the lake, glance at the golf course on your right; it is one of the oldest in North America. On a clear day you can see the Toronto skyline on the far side of the lake. 6 p.m. Lakeside Dining One frustration about Niagara-on-the-Lake is that there are next to no restaurants that overlook the lake itself, and very few hotels that do. In fact, the Oban Inn at the corner of Front Street and Gate Street is the only dining room in town with a lakeside view. Built 170 years ago, the Oban is one of the best places in town to sample local organic produce and such regional specialties as venison and fresh arctic char. Ask the sommelier to recommend a Niagara wine; there are at least 22 white wines and 24 reds to choose from. 8 p.m. The Play's the Thing Start your theatrical weekend with one of the Shaw productions at the Festival Theater. Shaw wrote 54 plays, 52 of which have been produced at the festival since its inception in 1962. (This season's offerings are ``Candida'' and ``Caesar and Cleopatra.'') As you exit at the end of the evening, do not be surprised if you feel disoriented. The high caliber of the performances _ from the set design to the lighting, music, acting and direction _ is what one is used to finding on Broadway or in London's West End. But feeling the lake breeze hit your face will remind you of where you are, and make you all the more grateful for the festival's location. Saturday 10 a.m. Biking in the Wineries Drive 10 minutes to Queenston village (this is the only time you will need to drive all weekend) where you can park your car, grab a helmet and set off on a daylong bike tour for $82 (all prices are in U.S. dollars) along the scenic Niagara River with the 1984 Olympic silver medalist Steve Bauer (www.stevebauer.com). The tour includes stops at historic sites and at two wineries, including a wine sampling session and a three-course lunch at the Peller Estates Winery. Even though the tour is designed for all levels of bikers (the longest riding stint is about 40 minutes) it is probably best not to drink too much wine, as you still have that ride back to town ahead of you. Those who don't wish to cycle can pick up the Wine Country Vintners Shuttle ($3) on Queens Street, and enjoy a narrated tour of the wine country and the flexibility of hopping on and off at any point to linger over lunch or a tasting at one of the vineyards, including Hillebrand Estates, which has a particularly beautiful outdoor terrace for lunch. 6 p.m. Straight From Italy Wander down the Victorian-era side streets on your way to dinner at Ristorante Giardino, at 142 Queen St. in the Gatehouse Hotel (905-468-3263). Owned by an Italian family who split their time between northern Italy and Niagara-on-the-Lake, the restaurant imports different chefs from Italy to work in the kitchen each summer. Try the osso buco and the homemade pastas. 8 p.m. Hanging With the Locals The intimate Royal George Theater is the site for the Shaw Festival's more light-hearted fare, such as a whodunnit or a musical performed with a live orchestra and _ rare these days _ no miking of the performers. (This year's production is Stephen Sondheim's ``Merrily We Roll Along.'') Afterward, head over to the Olde Angel Inn, at 224 Regent St., an English-style pub that dates back to 1789. Legend has it that Queen Victoria's father, Prince Edward, used to frequent this tavern. Nowadays it is packed with actors and backstage technicians who come after the show to unwind over a pint of lager and listen to local musicians perform. Heated discussions can be overheard as the patrons debate Shaw's plays and politics. Sunday 10 a.m. In Enemy Territory Walk over to Fort George, the main headquarters for the British army during the War of 1812, where the Canadians banded together to fight off several American invasions. Here you can tour the barracks and the officers' quarters, watch the flag-raising ceremony, or watch a soldiers' drill. If you come the weekend of July 20, you can take in a 100-soldier reenactment of one of the war's battles. The fort is open from April 1 to Oct. 31, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. The cost is $4 for adults and $2.50 for children 6 to 12. Children under 6 are free. Noon Brunch by the River Have an elegant brunch ($18, plus tax and tip; 11 a.m. to 1:30 p.m) in the Tiara dining room at the Queen's Landing Hotel (155 Byron St.; 905-468-2195), an imposing Georgian mansion overlooking the Niagara River. If the weather is nice, you might want to forego the dining room and sit on the patio for a lunch of hamburgers or pizza, and watch the sailboats head up river toward the lake. 2 p.m. Curtain Call For your final performance, head to a matinee at the Court House Theater, the original home of the Shaw Festival. The Court House is now the setting for the most challenging and obscure plays of the festival's season. This year, one can choose from four plays, including ``The House of Bernarda Alba,'' the last play written by Federico Garcia Lorca, considered by many to be the greatest Spanish writer of the 20th century, and ``His Majesty,'' a 1928 play by Harley Granville Barker that is having its North American premiere here. Since the millennium, the Shaw Festival has expanded its mandate to allow new plays into the repertory, provided the subject matter covers the period during Shaw's lifetime. 
