ATTENTION EDITORS: 	All photos and graphics from the New York Times News Service are available at nytimages.com. Clients who have a photo account with the Wieck Database can use the same username and password to access the images. 	There is no charge for browsing. But if you would like more information on establishing an account to download art from nytimages.com at a special rate, please call us at (212) 556-4204. 	Our report has also moved to Newscom and via AP PhotoExpress. 	The following photos have been sent as part of the New York Times photo package for Wednesday, May 1, 2002. 	(NYT61) RAMALLAH, West Bank -- May 1, 2002 -- MIDEAST-RAMALLAH-10 -- A Palestinian policeman hangs out of a window at Yasser Arafat's compound in Ramallah, as he and others join hundreds in celebrating early Thursday morning after Israeli forces withdrew in an American-brokered compromise. But almost at the same time, gunfights broke out at the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem, setting off fires in the church compound where Palestinian gunmen and non-combatants have been under Israeli siege since early April. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times) 	(NYT60) RAMALLAH, West Bank -- May 1, 2002 -- MIDEAST-RAMALLAH-9 -- A wounded Palestinian is carried through a hallway inside Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat's compound after Israeli forces withdrew in an American-brokered compromise, Wednesday. Israel withdrew when Arafat agreed to jail six Palestinians, under foreign supervision. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times) 	(NYT59) RAMALLAH, West Bank -- May 1, 2002 -- MIDEAST-RAMALLAH-8 -- Palestinian policemen and others clean up a room in Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat's damaged compound after Israeli forces withdrew in an American-brokered compromise, Wednesday. Israel withdrew when Arafat agreed to jail six Palestinians, under foreign supervision. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times) 	(NYT58) RAMALLAH, West Bank -- May 1, 2002 -- MIDEAST-RAMALLAH-7 -- A Palestinian embraced a friend in Ramallah early Thursday morning, as hundreds of Palestinians celebrate outside Yasser Arafat's compound at the end of the 34-day Israeli siege of Arafat's headquarters. Israel withdrew when Arafat agreed to jail six Palestinians, under foreign supervision. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times) 	(NYT57) RAMALLAH, West Bank -- May 1, 2002 -- MIDEAST-RAMALLAH-6 -- Palestinian gunmen cheer and waves their weapons in the air, as they join others celebrating outside Yasser Arafat's compound in Ramallah early Thursday morning after Israeli forces withdrew in an American-brokered compromise. But almost at the same time, gunfights broke out at the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem, setting off fires in the church compound where Palestinian gunmen and non-combatants have been under Israeli siege since early April. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times) 	(NYT56) RAMALLAH, West Bank -- May 1, 2002 -- MIDEAST-RAMALLAH-5 -- Israeli soldiers guard a road along which Israeli forces began withdrawing from Ramaallah, Wednesday. A convoy carrying Palestinian prisoners left earlier in the day for Jericho. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times) 	(NYT55) RAMALLAH, West Bank -- May 1, 2002 -- MIDEAST-ARAFAT-4-- Palestinians trapped for a month in Yasser Arafat's compound in Ramallah celebrate early Thursday morning after Israeli forces withdrew in an American-brokered compromise. But almost at the same time, gunfights broke out at the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem, setting off fires in the church compound where Palestinian gunmen and non-combatants have been under Israeli siege since early April. (Tyler Hicks/The New York Times) 	(NYT54) RAMALLAH, West Bank -- May 1, 2002 -- MIDEAST-ARAFAT-3 -- Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat in his office in Ramallah Wednesday, after Israeli forces ended their siege of his compound, explodes in rage in front of journalists over the news from Bethlehem, shouting: ``This is a crime! This is a crime!'' Gunfights broke out on Wednesday at the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem, setting off fires in the church compound where Palestinian gunmen and non-combatants have been under Israeli siege since early April. As the fires in the church compound died down early Thursday morning, each side blamed the other for starting a 45-minute gunfight. (Tyler Hicks/The New York Times) 	(NYT53) RAMALLAH, West Bank -- May 1, 2002 -- MIDEAST-ARAFAT-2 -- Palestinians celebrate outside Yasser Arafat's compound in Ramallah early Thursday morning after Israeli forces withdrew in an American-brokered compromise. But almost at the same time, gunfights broke out at the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem, setting off fires in the church compound where Palestinian gunmen and non-combatants have been under Israeli siege since early April. (Tyler Hicks/The New York Times) LITE 	(NYT52) RAMALLAH, West Bank -- MAy 1, 2002 -- MIDEAST-ARAFAT -- Yasser Arafat being congratulated in his office Wednesday after Israeli forces ended their siege of his compound in Ramallah. Palestinians trapped for a month in Arafat's compound in Ramallah erupted in celebration early Thursday morning after Israeli forces withdrew in an American-brokered compromise. But almost at the same time, gunfights broke out at the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem, setting off fires in the church compound where Palestinian gunmen and non-combatants have been under Israeli siege since early April. (Tyler Hicks/The New York Times) 	(NYT51) NEW YORK -- May 1, 2002 -- AIG-APPOINT -- Maurice R. Greenberg, who as one of the longest-serving chief executives in America has been criticized for failing to develop a succession plan at the American International Group, reorganized his top ranks on Wednesday to provide for his eventual departure. But Greenberg, 76, emphasized that he expected to remain in charge of this huge insurance and financial services company far into the future. Greenberg in his office in Manhattan. (Justin Lane/The New York Times) 	(NYT50) NEW YORK -- May 1, 2002 -- MAGAZINE-AWARDS -- Among the editors whose magazines won the awards for general excellence on Wednesday were, from left, Emil Wilbekin of Vibe, John Rasmus of National Geographic Adventure, David Remnick of The New Yorker, James W. Seymore Jr. of Entertainment Weekly and Mark Whitaker of Newsweek. The winners were at the Waldorf-Astoria in Manhattan. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times) 	(NYT49) UNDATED -- May 1, 2002 -- NY-AUCTIONS-2 -- Just 6 months ago, the auction house Phillips, de Pury &AMP; Luxembourg in New York, seemed to be in a position to compete with Christie's and Sotheby's -- however, after losing much of their backing, they have become a nonentity. Christie's and Sotheby's are having their spring shows in May. Brancusi's ``Danaide,'' will be part of the Christie's Impressionist and modern sale on May 7. (Christie's/The New York Times) MAGS OUT--NO SALESONLY FOR USE WITH STORY BY CAROL VOGEL 	(NYT48) UNDATED -- May 1, 2002 -- NY-AUCTIONS-1 -- Just 6 months ago, the auction house Phillips, de Pury &AMP; Luxembourg in New York, seemed to be in a position to compete with Christie's and Sotheby's -- however, after losing much of their backing, they have become a nonentity. Christie's and Sotheby's are having their spring shows in May. Gauguin's ``Tahitian Woman Near the Palms'' is in Sotheby's Impressionist and modern sale on Wednesday. (Sotheby's/The New York Times) MAGS OUT--NO SALESONLY FOR USE WITH STORY BY CAROL VOGEL 	(NYT47) UNDATED -- May 1, 2002 -- LINDBERGH-REDUX-2 -- Farmingdale, N.Y. is near, but not exactly, where Charles A. Lindbergh took off for Paris on May 20, 1927, and the 75th anniversary of that epic flight is nearly three weeks away. But 36-year-old Erik R. Lindbergh celebrated the anniversary of his grandfather's flight on Wednesday. An undated photo of Charles Lindbergh, with his Spirit of St. Louis, the craft in which he conquered the Atlantic. (Library of Congress/The New York Times) 	(NYT46) FARMINGDALE, N.Y. -- May 1, 2002 -- LINDBERGH-REDUX -- Farmingdale, N.Y. is near, but not exactly, where Charles A. Lindbergh took off for Paris on May 20, 1927, and the 75th anniversary of that epic flight is nearly three weeks away. But 36-year-old Erik R. Lindbergh celebrated the anniversary of his grandfather's flight on Wednesday. Lindbergh taking off Wednesday from Republic Airport in Farmingdale, N.Y. (Angel Franco/The New York Times) 	(NYT45) TOUBA, Senegal -- May 1, 2002 -- SENEGAL-MOURIDES-3 -- Unlike most other Muslim brotherhoods, which have their roots in northern Africa or the Arab world, the Mourides trace their origins to Sheik Amadou Bamba, a Senegalese Islamic cleric who resisted French colonialism and was forced into exile to central Africa in 1895. Every year, to mark Sheik Bamba's departure into exile, hundreds of thousands of Mourides make the pilgrimage to Touba, which to many is more significant than going to Mecca. Mourides faithful praying at Bamba's tomb in Touba. (Seyllou Diallo/The New York Times) LITE 	(NYT44) TOUBA, Senegal -- May 1, 2002 -- SENEGAL-MOURIDES-2 -- The interior of the great mosque in Touba, Senegal, where every year hundreds of thousands of the Sufi Muslim brotherhood called the Mourides, from all over the world, go on pilgrimage. The Mourides have become known as small-time international businessmen, and Touba's lavish mosques have been built on the money raised by individual Mourides, who toiled for decades as peanut farmers and then began traveling outside Senegal in search of business. (Seyllou Diallo/The New York Times) 	(NYT43) TOUBA, Senegal -- May 1, 2002 -- SENEGAL-MOURIDES -- The great mosque at Touba is the landmark of a city that otherwise looks like many others near the Sahara. The mosque was built with contributions from individual Mourides, many of whom in West Africa are famous for their entrepreneurship as much as for their moderate, essentially African, vision of Islam. (Seyllou Diallo/The New York Times) LITE 	(NYT42) BURNLEY, England -- May 1, 2002 -- BRITAIN-ELECT-3 -- With right-wing politicians like Jean-Marie Le Pen gaining support in countries across Europe, attention in Britain's local elections has focused on the British National Party. Its anti-immigrant, pro-nationalist message has struck a deep nerve among some fed-up whites in the industrial north. A BNP election poster sits in a window in Burnley, England on Wednesday. (Jonathan Player/The New York Times) 	(NYT41) BURNLEY, England -- May 1, 2002 -- BRITAIN-ELECT-2 -- With right-wing politicians like Jean-Marie Le Pen gaining support in countries across Europe, attention in Britain's local elections has focused on the British National Party. Its anti-immigrant, pro-nationalist message has struck a deep nerve among some fed-up whites in the industrial north. Colin Green, top, said he was shocked that one of his children was learning about Islam, but had never heard of St. George, England's patron saint. Zahid Nadeem, who is from Pakistan, said he was increasingly concerned about a Burnley that seemed ever more hostile to people like him. (Jonathan Player/The New York Times) 	(NYT40) BURNLEY, England -- May 1, 2002 -- BRITAIN-ELECT -- With right-wing politicians like Jean-Marie Le Pen gaining support in countries across Europe, attention in Britain's local elections has focused on the British National Party. Its anti-immigrant, pro-nationalist message has struck a deep nerve among some fed-up whites in the industrial north. A restaurant sports a patriotic grill on the main street of Burnley, England on Wednesday. (Jonathan Player/The New York Times) 	(NYT39) NEW YORK -- May 1, 2002 -- AIDS-MUSICIANS -- On Sunday, at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, in New York, the concert series will present ``Wild Flowers: A Blue Ridge Bouquet'' by Gerald Busby, left. Two of the five composers on the program died of complications from AIDS, the other three are living with AIDS or HIV. Making music, with help from the Estate Project for Artists With AIDS are from left, Busby, C. Bryan Rulon, Martin Hennessy and Fred Hersch. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times) 	(NYT38) CALHOUN, Ga. -- May 1, 2002 -- GA-STORMS-COX -- Earl Holland walks past trees that fell on a house aftter a severe early morning storm in Calhoun, Ga., Wednesday. Severe weather marched across much of the Southeast Wednesday, producing heavy rains, high winds, large hail and several unconfirmed tornadoes. Fair skies spread throughout much of the central part of the country. More than 0.75 inches of rain was reported in Gainesville, Ga., Wednesday morning, while several towns in northwestern Georgia reported unconfirmed tornadoes, trees down and wind damage. Nickel- to quarter-size hail was reported in some parts. (Phil Skinner/The Atlanta Journal-Constitution) 	(NYT37) WASHINGTON -- May 1, 2002 -- CONGRESS-DOLLAR -- After saying his goal was to avoid upsetting the financial markets, Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill did just that Wednesday by sparring with members of a congressional committee about the nation's financial condition and leaving some investors with doubts about his willingness to defend the weakening dollar. O'Neill testifying at the Senate on Tuesday. (Susana Raab/The New York Times)MAGS OUT -- NO SALES 	(NYT36) LONDON -- May 1, 2002 -- RUG-AUCTIONS-2 -- There are at least 68 Oriental rugs pictured for the April 10 sale at Christie's South Kensington gallery in London. Dealers inspecting an antique Oriental rug estimated by Christie's at $6,000 to $9,000. It sold for $5,250. (Jonathan Player/The New York Times) 	(NYT35) LONDON -- May 1, 2002 -- RUG-AUCTIONS -- Bargain hunting at an Oriental rug auction in London. There are at least 68 rugs pictured for the April 10 sale at Christie's South Kensington gallery. (Jonathan Player/The New York Times) 	(NYT34) NEW YORK -- May 1, 2002 -- LUCK-THEATER-REVIEW -- Samantha Mathis, left, and Chris O'Donnell in ``The Man Who Had All the Luck,'' on Broadway at the American Airlines Theater. O'Donnell, known for playing sidekicks in popular films -- he was Robin in two of the ``Batman'' movies, and he starred with Al Pacino in ``Scent of a Woman'' -- had never appeared onstage before ``The Man Who Had All the Luck'' was produced last summer at the Williamstown Theater Festival. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times) 	(NYT33) NASHVILLE, Tenn. -- May 1, 2002 -- GORE-LIEBERMAN -- While Sen. Joseph Lieberman of Connecticut is indeed grateful to Al Gore for choosing him in 2000, he leaves no doubt that he hopes the former vice president stays out of the race in 2004. The senator has had a taste of the national limelight and now wants the top slot for himself. The predicament for Lieberman is that he has long vowed not to run if Gore does. And while Gore insists that he has made no decision, he has been so visible in recent days that many Democrats who once questioned his ardor are now convinced that he is itching to take on President George W. Bush again. Gore introducing his running mate, Lieberman in Nashville, Tenn., on Aug. 8, 2000. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) LITE 	(NYT32) NEW YORK -- May 1, 2002 -- SUN-RETIRE -- Edward J. Zander, the gregarious executive who oversaw daily operations at Sun Microsystems, plans to retire on July 1, the company said on Wednesday. Zander, the troubled computer maker's No. 2 executive, is the fourth high-profile Sun executive to announce a retirement in recent weeks. Zander during an interview in New York last August. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) 	(NYT31) NEW YORK -- May 1, 2002 -- HOUSE-PROUD-4 -- The home of Andrew and Wan Kyun Rha Kim in New York includes Cultural Revolution artifacts and European-style designs interpreted by Chinese artisans. The six-story 19th-century house is also Wan Kim's hothouse of ideas about the world, East and West, and life present and past. The house is both museum and studio, Kim both curator and creator. Andrew Kim's office houses their ceramics collection and works of Chinese Cultural Revolutionary art. (Antoine Bootz/The New York Times) 	(NYT30) NEW YORK -- May 1, 2002 -- HOUSE-PROUD-3 -- The home of Andrew and Wan Kyun Rha Kim in New York includes Cultural Revolution artifacts and European-style designs interpreted by Chinese artisans. The six-story 19th-century house is also Wan Kim's hothouse of ideas about the world, East and West, and life present and past. The house is both museum and studio, Kim both curator and creator. Left, Zhang Mingji's mural and the floor Wan Kim painted. A ceiling painted by artist, Wang Zhenghua. (Antoine Bootz/The New York Times) 	(NYT29) NEW YORK -- May 1, 2002 -- HOUSE-PROUD-2 -- The home of Andrew and Wan Kyun Rha Kim in New York includes Cultural Revolution artifacts and European-style designs interpreted by Chinese artisans. The six-story 19th-century house is also Wan Kim's hothouse of ideas about the world, East and West, and life present and past. The house is both museum and studio, Kim both curator and creator. Wan Kim's painting of a pond at Smith, her alma mater, on a bathroom floor. (Antoine Bootz/The New York Times) 	(NYT28) NEW YORK -- May 1, 2002 -- HOUSE-PROUD -- The home of Andrew, left, and Wan Kyun Rha Kim in New York includes Cultural Revolution artifacts and European-style designs interpreted by Chinese artisans. The six-story 19th-century house is also Wan Kim's hothouse of ideas about the world, East and West, and life present and past. The house is both museum and studio, Kim both curator and creator. The Kims in their music room. Above the settee, ``Cupid and Psyche,'' by Zhang Mingji, is based on an 18th-century work by Charles-Joseph Natoire. (Antoine Bootz/The New York Times) 	(NYT27) PARIS -- May 1, 2002 -- FRANCE-PROTESTS-3 -- A veteran of the French military prepares to march at a rally in Paris for extreme-right French presidential candidate Jean-Marie Le Pen, Wednesday, a few days before the second round of voting for the presidency. Le Pen will face incumbent Jacques Chirac in the May 5 election runoff. (James Hill/The New York Times) 	(NYT26) UNDATED -- May 1, 2002 -- CIR-GEEK-NOTES-2 -- Television broadcasters, TV manufacturers and programmers continue to blame one another for the slow acceptance of digital television. One obstacle has been the price of equipment. WOW Digital TV, a company in Salt Lake City that makes receivers, hopes to break the logjam later this year by selling a converter box for $199. The converters can be used with HDTV-ready sets or with an analog television to watch a standard-definition digital feed. (The New York Times) 	(NYT25) UNDATED -- May 1, 2002 -- CIR-GEEK-NOTES -- The Toshiba Pocket PC e310, left, comes with a 3.5-inch color screen that can display more than 65,000 colors at a resolution of 240 by 320 pixels, and a choice of five levels of brightness can help preserve battery life. It has a list price of $399. When channel surfing begat Web surfing, the remote control did not stray far from the television. The Remote Wonder from ATI Technologies, can control PC functions by sending radio signals to a USB receiver up to 100 feet away. The unit costs $50. (The New York Times) 	(NYT24) WASHINGTON -- May 1, 2002 -- PRESCRIPTION-DRUGS-2 -- Rep. Shelley Moore Capito, R.-W. Va., talks with Joan Grillo, a senior citizen who came to Washington with the United Seniors Association to lobby on behalf of prescription drug legislation, on Capitol Hill Wednesday. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) 	(NYT23) WASHINGTON -- May 1, 2002 -- PRESCRIPTION-DRUGS -- House Speaker Dennis Hastert of Ill., third from right facing front, greets senior citizens on Capitol Hill Wednesday, after a news conference in Washington, to discuss prescription drug benefits to seniors under the Medicare program. Medicare recipients would receive protection against catastrophic drug costs and the low-income elderly would get federal subsidies for all their prescription expenses under election-year legislation that Republicans intend to bring to the House floor by Memorial Day. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) 	(NYT22) PARIS -- May 1, 2002 -- FRANCE-PROTESTS-2 -- Extreme-right presidential candidate Jean-Marie Le Pen speaks to housands of French flag-waving supporters at the end of the National Front's traditional May Day march to honor Joan of Arc, in Paris, Wednesday. Le Pen will face incumbent Jacques Chirac in the May 5 election runoff. The Slogan on the podium reads ``France found again.'' (James Hill/The New York Times) 	(NYT21) PARIS -- May 1, 2002 -- FRANCE-PROTESTS -- Supporters from the region of Haute Savoie, home to extreme-right French presidential candidate Jean-Marie Le Pen, prepare to march at a rally in Paris in support of Le Pen, Wednesday, a few days before the second round of voting for the presidency. Le Pen will face incumbent Jacques Chirac in the May 5 election runoff. (James Hill/The New York Times) 	(NYT20) UNDATED -- May 1, 2002 -- CIR-ROBOT-DOGS-2 -- Aibos, the first mass-produced entertainment robot, have grown in popularity in the three years since they were introduced, with more than 100,000 of the creatures -- which cost from $850 to $1,500 -- sold worldwide. In an undated photo, Tom Burrows, who is allergic to pets, owns three Aibos. One of them, Voltron, ``is spoiled rotten,'' he said. (Marissa Roth/The New York Times) 	(NYT19) UNDATED -- May 1, 2002 -- CIR-ROBOT-DOGS -- Aibos, the first mass-produced entertainment robot, have grown in popularity in the three years since they were introduced, with more than 100,000 of the creatures -- which cost from $850 to $1,500 -- sold worldwide. Aibos belonging to Polly Gillette, left, and Jeff Gouda get acquainted in an undated photo. (Marissa Roth/The New York Times) LITE 	(NYT18) TOKYO -- May 1, 2002 -- CIR-KABUKI-2 -- Inspired by the computer graphics techniques used to turn Arnold Schwarzenegger into a cyborg, Koji Orita created an animated creature that sang, ate and conversed onstage during the play, ``Aki No Kappa,'' performed in March at the National Theater of Japan in Tokyo. For the kabuki play ``Aki No Kappa,'' an actor was wired with sensors to produce a hologram character. A scene from ``Aki No Kappa.'' (National Theater of Japan/The New York Times) 	(NYT17) TOKYO -- May 1, 2002 -- CIR-KABUKI -- Inspired by the computer graphics techniques used to turn Arnold Schwarzenegger into a cyborg, Koji Orita created an animated creature that sang, ate and conversed onstage during the play, ``Aki No Kappa,'' performed in March at the National Theater of Japan in Tokyo. For the kabuki play ``Aki No Kappa,'' an actor was wired with sensors to produce the hologram's movements. (National Theater of Japan/The New York Times) 	(NYT16) UNDATED -- May 1, 2002 -- CIR-GAME-THEORY-2 -- Today's videogame makers are making soccer games that are visually stunning as well as very entertaining. Soccer Slam by Sega, is an arcade game with cartoon characters and soccer players that can be transformed into heroes. (The New York Times) 	(NYT15) UNDATED -- May 1, 2002 -- CIR-GAME-THEORY -- Today's videogame makers are making soccer games that are visually stunning as well as very entertaining. World Tour Soccer from 989 Sports, is a simulation with the feel of a real match. (The New York Times) 	(NYT14) RAMALLAH, West Bank -- May 1, 2002 -- MIDEAST-RAMALLAH-4 -- Israeli soldiers guard a road in Ramallah, after American and British diplomatic corps cars left the compound of Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat in Ramallah on the West Bank, Wednesday evening. The diplomatic corps cars picked up and transfered six Palestinians wanted by Israel to a prison in Jericho in the West Bank where British and American wardens will guard them in a Palestinian prison. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times) 	(NYT13) RAMALLAH, West Bank -- May 1, 2002 -- MIDEAST-RAMALLAH-3 -- An Israeli tank is parked by the side of a road as a convoy of U.S. and British officials leaves Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat's compound in Ramallah, Wednesday. Israeli armored vehicles began rumbling out of Arafat's battered compound Wednesday night, ending his five months of confinement in a diplomatic breakthrough that also saw six wanted Palestinians whisked away to a West Bank jail in the U.S. and British convoy. (Tyler Hicks/The New York Times) 	(NYT12) RAMALLAH, West Bank -- May 1, 2002 -- MIDEAST-RAMALLAH-2 -- Led by an Israeli army vehicle, a convoy of U.S. and British officials head towards Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat's compound in Ramallah, Wednesday. Israeli armored vehicles began rumbling out of Arafat's battered compound Wednesday night, ending his five months of confinement in a diplomatic breakthrough that also saw six wanted Palestinians whisked away to a West Bank jail in the U.S. and British convoy. (Tyler Hicks/The New York Times) 	(NYT11) RAMALLAH, West Bank -- May 1, 2002 -- MIDEAST-RAMALLAH -- A convoy of U.S. and British officials head towards Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat's compound in Ramallah, Wednesday. Israeli armored vehicles began rumbling out of Arafat's battered compound Wednesday night, ending his five months of confinement in a diplomatic breakthrough that also saw six wanted Palestinians whisked away to a West Bank jail in the U.S. and British convoy. (Tyler Hicks/The New York Times) 	(NYT10) WASHINGTON -- May 1, 2002 -- BUSH-CHINA-2 -- Secretary of State Colin Powell, center, with representatives from the the Chinese delegation after a meeting in the Oval Office between President Bush and Chinese Vice President Hu Jintao, Wednesday. Hu also met with Vice President Dick Cheney, Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld for discussions on Taiwan, trade, human rights and U.S.-Chinese military issues. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 	(NYT9) WASHINGTON -- May 1, 2002 -- BUSH-CHINA -- President George W. Bush shakes hands with Chinese Vice President Hu Jintao, in the Oval Office of the White House, Wednesday. Hu also met with Vice President Dick Cheney, Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld and Secretary of State Colin Powell for discussions on Taiwan, trade, human rights and U.S.-Chinese military issues. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 	(NYT8) MAMARONECK, N.Y. -- May 1, 2002 -- NY-GREEN-GOLF-2 -- For years, they have been viewed as the environmental monsters of the suburbs (HR) impossibly green swards that live on a diet of heavy doses of pesticides and endless supplies of water. But as golfers tee off this spring, they are gazing out on courses that in many cases have been changed in only a decade from ecological villains to green spaces that integrate native plants and wild animals and use less water, fertilizers and pesticides. A golfer at the Winged Foot Golf Club in Mamaroneck, N.Y. The club is considering spending millions on a new and highly efficient irrigation system. (Angel Franco/The New York Times) 	(NYT7) MAMARONECK, N.Y. -- May 1, 2002 -- NY-GREEN-GOLF -- With a new golf course opening every day on average in the United States, environmentalists have pressed the golf industry to follow safer practices. But many say that despite an agreement between golf courses and environmentalists to adopt less obtrusive methods, the industry can still do better. Eric Greytok, director of golf course maintenance, putting some water on a green at the Winged Foot Golf Club in Mamaroneck, N.Y. The club is considering spending millions on a new and highly efficient irrigation system. (Angel Franco/The New York Times) 	(NYT6) NEW CANAAN, Conn. -- May 1, 2002 -- CIR-ONLINE-EDUCATION -- At the height of the Internet boom, many colleges started ventures aimed at cashing in on online education -- figuring that it would be ``easy, inexpensive to develop and highly profitable,'' as one expert put it. All three assumptions turned out to be mistaken, and now many of the operations are being rethought or abandoned. New York University closed its online venture, led by Gordon Macomber. Macomber in his office in New Canaan, Conn. (Rebecca Cooney/The New York Times) 	(NYT5) NEW YORK -- May 1, 2002 -- CIR-ONLINE-EDUCATION-2 -- At the height of the Internet boom, many colleges started ventures aimed at cashing in on online education -- figuring that it would be ``easy, inexpensive to develop and highly profitable,'' as one expert put it. All three assumptions turned out to be mistaken, and now many of the operations are being rethought or abandoned. Fathom, a consortium that includes Columbia University, survives under Ann Kirschner. Kirschner at Fathom's office in Manhattan. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times) 	(NYT4) NEWTON, Mass. -- May 1, 2002 -- COLLEGE-COACH-BOS -- Largely unheard of until the past few years, college consultants now fetch $3,500 or more to help high school students gain an edge on other applicants. They typically practice in prosperous communities that place a premium on education, like Boston's western suburbs. Lloyd Peterson of College Coach, who works for College Coach, a Newton, Mass.-based college-admissions consulting firm, says extracurricular activities are important. (Justine Ellement/The Boston Globe) 	(NYT3) WASHINGTON -- May 1, 2002 -- CONGRESS-TRADE -- Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D., left, and House Minority Leader Dick Gephardt, D-Mo., during a press conference to discuss trade authority and drug prescription legislation, on Capitol Hill, Wednesday. Daschle said on Wednesday that conservative Republicans will be to blame if the U.S. Senate fails to approve legislation to expand President Bush's trade negotiating authority. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 	(NYT2) ORRS ISLAND, Maine -- May 1, 2002 -- TRAVEL-KAYAK-BOS-2 -- Instructor Jeff Cooper's kayak near Orrs Island, Me. Painted in the image of the American flag, the kayak is a special edition in memory of the Sept. 11 attacks. It also has a special storage area in front. (Tom Haines/The Boston Globe) 	(NYT1) ORRS ISLAND, Maine -- May 1, 2002 -- TRAVEL-KAYAK-BOS -- Instructor Jeff Cooper with his kayak near Orrs Island, Me. Painted in the image of the American flag, the kayak is a special edition in memory of th)e Sept. 11 attacks. It also has a special storage area in front. (Tom Haines/The Boston Globe) 	The New York Times News Service 
