After a seven-month investigation into the collapse of the World Trade Center left open more questions than it answered, federal officials proposed on Wednesday that an expansive new effort determine exactly why the towers fell and how other buildings might be protected. The new investigation, which would be led by a federal agency with long experience in studying building disasters, would begin with the collection of fresh data on the collapse, including photographic and video evidence, inspection records, calculations made when the towers were designed, as well as interviews with firefighters and other emergency workers and survivors of the collapse. But the work would then range far beyond data-taking to sophisticated computer analysis of everything from the dynamics of burning jet fuel inside a high-rise to the flow of heat and smoke in multistory blazes and the buckling of columns and bolted connections under extreme loads. Certain pieces of the World Trade Center _ possibly some of the lightweight steel trusses that held up floors _ would even be re-created and placed in an artificial inferno to see how they behave and how they fail. The proposed investigation, which would be led by the National Institute of Standards and Technology in Maryland, was the focus of hearings held here on Wednesday at the House Science Committee before a gallery packed with fire experts, structural engineers, government officials and people who lost family members and loved ones in the collapse. The first phase of the investigation would cost $16 million and last two years; the money has been sought in the Bush administration's supplemental request for the 2002 fiscal year. The hearing was led by Rep. Sherwood L. Boehlert, R-N.Y., who as chairman of the science committee has long followed the investigation. But a widening of political interest in explaining the disaster became evident in the questioning of experts from the standards institute, the Federal Emergency Management Agency and other organizations. Rep. Vernon J. Ehlers, R-Mich., began his questions by remarking, ``I'm still puzzled by building No. 7'' _ a reference to 7 World Trade Center, a 47-story high-rise that most of the nation would surely be hard-pressed to identify. But 7 World Trade also collapsed in the afternoon of Sept. 11, and explaining its failure would play a prominent role in the new investigation. Rep. Christopher Shays, R-Conn., became interested in the existing investigation's findings that the tight clustering and thin encasement of escape stairways made them susceptible to being severed all at once, trapping people above the impact zones of the hijacked jets that brought the towers down. ``In a way, did we almost design this building like the Titanic?'' Shays asked. ``You didn't have enough life boats.'' Most impassioned of all was Rep. Anthony D. Weiner, whose district includes Brooklyn and Queens. ``If we want to ensure that the legacy of this tragedy is that future building collapses are avoided or mitigated, then we need to do a better job of investigating the causes,'' he said. Weiner and Boehlert have drafted a bill that would create a construction safety board, which would be centered at the standards institute and have wide powers, including subpoena power, to investigate building failures. Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton, D-N.Y., released a statement at the hearing saying that she planned to introduce a similar bill in the Senate. Clinton's statement compared the trade center disaster to the Triangle Shirtwaist fire in Manhattan in 1911, when exits were blocked and workers jumped to their deaths. The often-criticized federal investigation that began last year, and which officially released its findings at the hearing on Wednesday, was led by FEMA and the American Society of Civil Engineers. Despite the uncertainties that remain after that investigation, it did arrive at a set of solid recommendations for changes in building practices, said the team's leader, W. Gene Corley, a senior vice president at CTL Engineering in Chicago. For example, buildings that might be targets of a terrorist attack should not have fireproofing that can be dislodged as easily as the material intended to protected the trade center's steel, Corley said. The lightweight, spray-on fireproofing used there is too easily knocked off in a blast or impact, he said, leaving a building susceptible to fire damage. Still, the long-term influence of the trade center disaster is not likely to be felt until the wider investigation determines how building codes and practices should be changed to provide better safety, said Glenn P. Corbett, an assistant professor of fire science at John Jay College of Criminal Justice. ``Fundamentally, that's one of the most important reasons they're studying the disaster in the first place,'' Corbett said. Assembled family members said they were counting on the new effort to answer some of the intense criticisms they had directed at the investigation since Sept. 11. ``I want to minimize as much as possible that this type of tragedy will happen to any family, anywhere,'' said Tom Resta, who lost both a brother and a sister-in-law in the collapse of the north tower. ``I want answers.'' 
