The prospect of outside intervention, anathema to most Israelis, is a saving grace to Palestinians. On May 2 Yasser Arafat was released from his imprisonment in Ramallah, courtesy of a model he wants applied throughout the occupied territories: the insertion of foreign security men. Any international force would have a dual function, protecting Israelis from terrorism as well as Palestinians from assault. But Arafat sees it, above all, as shielding his regime and himself from an Israeli leader who is out to get both. Five months ago, Arafat was at a low ebb: confined by Israeli tanks to his presidential compound in Ramallah (and later squeezed into two rooms) and left to fester by much of Europe and the Arab world. Ariel Sharon had declared him ``irrelevant'' and the Bush administration was thinking of dumping him. Now he is ``the most important leader in the Middle East,'' as Saudi Arabia's crown prince, Abdullah, wryly told George Bush last week. Thanks to an American-brokered deal, four of the six men holed up in Arafat's compound, all of whom Israel wanted extradited, will serve the prison terms imposed on them by an improvised Palestinian court in a Palestinian Authority (PA) prison in Jericho, monitored, or, in Arafat's parlance, ``protected,'' by American and British security men. The other two are to be ``detained'' there. The Palestinian leader is hoping for a similar way out of the crisis at Bethlehem, where a group of gunmen have taken refuge in the Church of the Nativity, along with scores of policemen, civilians and priests. Over the past week up to 60 people have been allowed out of the church. But Arafat insists that the wanted men _ the Israelis are now talking only of four or five _ should not be jailed in Israel or exiled abroad but face prison terms, imposed by the Palestinian Authority, in Gaza ``under international auspices.'' He believes, or hopes, that Israel's stance on Bethlehem has been weakened by the Ramallah precedent, especially in the eyes of the Jerusalem churches, who have long sought international help to end the blockade on one of Christianity's holiest shrines. They are not the only ones. In the past month, the United Nations, the European Union, Saudi Arabia and members of Israel's peace camp have all backed Arafat's call for some form of outside presence in the occupied territories. ``Left alone the parties will not be able to extricate themselves from the current impasse,'' observes Kofi Annan, the U.N.'s secretary-general. Arafat wants a multinational force empowered not only to monitor a cease-fire and an Israeli withdrawal, but also to guarantee trade and movement between Palestinian areas, and the reconstruction of PA institutions destroyed by the army. All this is resolutely opposed by Sharon, who, the Palestinians believe, wants military rule throughout the West Bank and Gaza to continue, plus a permanent siege on Palestinian cities, with occasional forays into them. On April 28 Israeli tanks rolled into Hebron, the one main West Bank town left untouched by Israel's latest offensive, after Palestinian guerrillas attacked a nearby settlement, killing four people, including a 5-year-old girl. Compared with the devastation visited on Jenin, Nablus and Ramallah, the invasion was small-scale. Resistance was light and the tanks left three days later. But the targets were the same: Policemen were killed, hundreds of people were rounded up, PA institutions were raided, and 120,000 Palestinians were confined by a curfew. On May 1, the army went into Gaza's Rafah refugee camp, leaving three Palestinians dead, including a baby girl. The next day the army entered Tulkarm. If the Israeli army remains free to act in this way, it will spell the end of the PA. This is why Arafat is hoping that the United Nations will press again for a probe into what happened in Jenin. There now appears little substance to Palestinian claims that a massacre occurred in the camp. But, according to human-rights and military experts, there is substance to the charge that the army committed grave breaches of humanitarian law, including the denial of medical treatment to the wounded, and the wanton destruction of civilian lives and property. A mission authorized to look into this would almost certainly strengthen the call for a multinational force: As things are, the PA is unable to protect its civilians, and the Israeli army is disinclined to. This, basically, is why Arafat wants the mission, and why Sharon does not. 
