Los Angeles Dodgers right-hander Kevin Brown wants it to be clear. His elbow is fine. His arm is fine. He is fine. Just because he was taken out after five innings in his last start does not mean his stamina is suffering, his elbow is hurting or what-have-you. He said it was simple circumstance of the game, and added he is fit to pitch the rest of the season. ``The situation I'm in right now is not that much different than what everybody goes through at some period of time, even when you haven't had injuries,'' Brown said Thursday. ``That's trying to get rhythm, comfort, whatever you want to call it, and you really have a good feel of what you're trying to do out there. And you have times when you don't have that even when you haven't been injured. ``It's knowing what I'm doing with the ball and not having to work hard at it, as far as it being just smooth and flowing. Now, it's a matter of touch. It's a matter of getting some repetition.'' Brown, who allowed two runs in five innings Tuesday against Cincinnati, said his goal is not to return to form but become better than he was before the injury. Brown averaged 16 wins and 242 innings and had a 2.51 ERA in the previous five seasons leading up to his injury-ravaged 2001 season. His next start is Sunday against the Chicago Cubs. ``I'll be satisfied when I'm satisfied, which is probably never because I haven't been satisfied yet,'' said Brown, 37. ``That's not the way you do well, by being satisfied. What am I looking for? To be better than I've ever been before. If you're satisfied, you don't get any better. So I'm pitching to get better. I think it's getting very close to being normal, from the standpoint of being able to go out and work on pitching the way I want to work on it.'' Questions and concerns stir around Brown because he is coming off elbow surgery, then a stint on the disabled list. He is 1-2 with a 4.67 ERA, but that is obscured by an awful season-opening start. In his other three outings, Brown allowed two earned runs in 13 innings. ``What I saw was good stuff (against the Reds),'' Dodgers pitching coach Jim Colborn said. ``I didn't see great command, his normal command. That's going to come. It's going to get better next time, and the time after it will get better than that. How many times before it's 100 percent? I would say it could be next time.'' --Jordan rests knee, mind: Left fielder Brian Jordan was out of the starting lineup to rest his sore left knee and also his mind. Dodgers manager Jim Tracy said the lack of production from the middle of his lineup -- Paul Lo Duca, Shawn Green and Jordan -- was hampering the success of the club. Jordan had no problem with that assessment. ``I know when you suck for two days in a row, you need a day off,'' Jordan said. ``Myself, Green, we're kind of struggling. It's no big deal. We're both slow starters. I can't wait for the warm weather to come around. (Green) is trying too hard. I can see him pressing.'' Jordan said most of his woes come from adjusting to his new home ballpark. Jordan is batting .333 (18 for 54) on the road, but was hitting .179 (7 for 39) at home going into Thursday. He entered the season with a .240 (29 for 121) batting average at Dodger Stadium, his third-lowest mark at any ballpark in which he has more than 20 at-bats. ``I don't know if it's the (batter's) background,'' said Jordan, who expects to play today. ``I'm having a hard time trying to stay back. I've just got to adjust and find something to keep me back there. Believe me, it's going to happen. I ain't worried about that. It's kind of frustrating. It's your home field and you want to do good. It's a slow process, but it's going to happen.'' --Ishii honored: Dodgers left-hander Kazuhisa Ishii was named National League rookie of the month. He went 5-0 with a 3.03 ERA and is the first Dodgers rookie starter to win his first five games since Fernando Valenzuela went 8-0 in 1981. 
