This week's Great American Hero is not a fireman or a policeman but a Louisville comedian by the name of Tom Mabe. What Tom Mabe did is so heroic and so inspiring that I get chills just thinking about it. Acting alone and with nothing more than a strong cup of coffee for protection, Mabe turned the tables on a group of telemarketers attending a convention in Washington, D.C., last Monday. What he did _ and I feel my eyes welling up as I write this _ was call the telemarketers in their hotel rooms BEFORE DAWN and pretend to sell them something. Were the telemarketers glad to have their sleep interrupted by some clown trying to sell them another credit card or a new long-distance carrier? Believe it or not, they weren't that thrilled! ``Most called me a jerk and hung up,'' Mabe told the Associated Press. Actually, Mabe didn't try to sell the telemarketers credit cards or long distance service. He is, after all, a comedian and much more creative than that. He said he was with the Telemarketers With Insomnia Foundation and tried to sell the groggy telemarketers a sleep aid. Not that it mattered. The telemarketers were just as miffed as you or I would be if an uninvited stranger had awakened us from a nap or interrupted us at dinner time just as we're lifting that first forkful of Hamburger Helper to our mouths. Mabe's experience with pesky telemarketers (sorry; that's a redundancy) is pretty much the same as yours and mine. The difference is that he did something about it. ``What they do is so intrusive,'' he said. ``I think it's trespassing.'' Mabe was working out of his home office writing commercial jingles in 1993 when telemarketing calls started to exasperate him. ``When you're self-employed, you jump when the phone rings, hoping it's a client,'' he said. Sound familiar? Then Mabe did something the rest of us would like to do if our will to live had not been sucked out of our souls by the telemarketers: He got them back. He told a telemarketer who was trying to sell him a home alarm system that he was robbing the place and it might be better if he called back later. But this next one is my favorite story. Mabe told a telemarketer who was trying to sell him a burial plot that he had perfect timing because he was planning on killing himself. If you think the telemarketer tried to talk Mabe out of his depression or immediately called 911 for help, then the telemarketers of your experience must come from another planet, possibly Venus. No, what the telemarketer did _ and again I feel tears welling up in my eyes _ was ask Mabe for his credit card information. The Associated Press story does not report what happened after that. I'm guessing that the telemarketer sold Mabe's number to a firearms manufacturer, a telemarketer for which immediately called Mabe and tried to sell him a handgun. After which another telemarketer would call, this one representing a law firm, trying to get Mabe to purchase a will. Then someone would call offering to buy Mabe's house. This would go on for days, months, maybe years. If Mabe had really entertained thoughts of killing himself, he wouldn't have had time, what with all the unsolicited calls. You can learn more about Tom Mabe and his grass-roots organization PEST (People's Efforts to Stop Telemarketing) at his Web site, www.tommabe.com. If you live in Florida and want to stop most telemarketers from calling you, call the Florida Department of Agricultural and Consumer Services at (800) HELP-FLA (435-7352). Joining PEST is free; getting the state to block unwanted calls costs $10 per phone for the first year and $5 per phone for every year thereafter. Organize, America! We have nothing to lose but a bunch of annoying phone calls. (David Grimes is a columnist for the Herald-Tribune in Sarasota, Fla. The Herald-Tribune is a member of the New York Times Regional Newspapers.) 
