When Frank Robinson played for the Baltimore Orioles, he was so feared that his teammates hated returning to the dugout after making a boneheaded play on the field. ``Frank would be waiting for you,'' former Orioles catcher Elrod Hendricks said. ``If you did something stupid, you were going to hear about it from Frank. When you played with Frank, you played the game the way it was supposed to be played.'' Robinson's approach served him well during more than 40 years as a Hall of Fame player and accomplished coach, manager and front-office executive. So when Major League Baseball looked for someone to take over one of its most hopeless causes, it turned to one of the game's most respected figures. Less than three months later, Robinson and the Montreal Expos look as if they were made for one another. In what he says is his final fling as a manager, Robinson, 66, has given a troubled franchise credibility, dignity and a spark of energy. His imposing presence and a core of solid players have combined to write baseball's most surprising story of this new season. After winning 5-1 at Astros Field on Tuesday night, the Expos are 16-10 and share first place with the New York Mets in the National League East. To paraphrase Mets manager Bobby Valentine, baseball doesn't hand out trophies for being in first place at the end of April, but in the case of the Expos, it's still significant. They were one of the franchises commissioner Bud Selig ticketed for contraction last winter, and even though they survived for at least one more season, they're almost surely playing their final season in Montreal, if not their final season, period. Their best-case scenario is a move to Washington, D.C., next winter. Their worst-case scenario is being disbanded after the season. ``The attitude now is, it's out of our control, so let's just play baseball and forget about it,'' center fielder Peter Bergeron said. When New York arts dealer Jeffrey Loria bailed out on the franchise after its fifth straight losing season to buy the Florida Marlins last winter, Major League Baseball took over operation of the Expos. They still play in front of sub-5,000 crowds most nights at cavernous Olympic Stadium. Yet they're more than just respectable. Selig appointed former Disney executive Tony Tavares to run the business operation, named Mets assistant general manager Omar Minaya as general manager, and asked Robinson, who had handled on-the-field discipline matters for the commissioner, to serve as manager. Robinson got the job a few days before spring training, and after hurriedly assembling a coaching staff, he learned he didn't even have the basic scouting reports other teams have. Yet instead of focusing on all the things he didn't have, he concentrated on what he did have. ``The first thing I told our players,'' Robinson said, ``is that we were going to play as a team. I told them, `Look around. Look at yourselves. There's the nucleus of a good team here. Now go out and play like it.' '' In right fielder Vladimir Guerrero, he had one of baseball's best hitters, a line-drive machine who averaged 118 RBIs over the previous four seasons. He also had star-caliber players at second base (Jose Vidro), first base (Lee Stevens), catcher (Michael Barrett), shortstop (Orlando Cabrera) and center field (Bergeron). All except Bergeron have played as well as Robinson hoped, and in Javier Vazquez, Tony Armas Jr. and Carl Pavano, the Expos have three potentially dominant starting pitchers. During a whirlwind spring training, Robinson also found he liked his players, something he couldn't always say during managerial stints in Cleveland, San Francisco and Baltimore. ``The one thing (former Expos manager) Jeff Torborg told me over and over was that these guys wouldn't quit,'' Robinson said. ``They didn't have a lot of success, but he said I'd be happy with how they approached the game. I think because we've had some success, it has made a difference.'' Robinson has brought his young players along slowly, praising Barrett for going from first to third on a hit to left one moment, then gently reminding his outfielders about a missed cutoff throw the next. ``Baseball is a beautiful game if it's played right,'' Robinson said. If the Expos are short on some of the finer points, their raw talent is unmistakable. Guerrero may be the best-kept secret in the game and is off to such a good start that he won't be much of a secret for long. He was named the National League's most recent Player of the Week for hitting .520, following Barrett, who won the same award for the second week of the season. Guerrero's .379 batting average is third in the league, and his major-league-best 28 RBIs are a franchise record for April. ``It's so much fun to watch this guy hit night after night,'' Expos hitting coach Tommy McCraw said. ``It doesn't matter where you throw it. He hits the heck out of it.'' Still, the Expos are under no illusions about the future. Barring a miracle, they're playing their last season in Montreal. If so, the game will be leaving a place with a rich history in the sport. Baseball has had a presence in Montreal for 90 years. Until the Expos arrived in 1969, the Montreal Royals were a minor-league fixture, the franchise with which Jackie Robinson and Roberto Clemente honed their skills. The Expos had some moments as well. Pete Rose collected his 4,000th hit at Olympic Stadium. Gary Carter and Tim Raines became household names while playing for the Expos. As recently as 1997, the club drew almost 1{ million fans, but the franchise's fate probably was sealed with two events. One was the 1994 players strike that forced the team's ownership to auction off what was left of its marquee players, including Larry Walker, Marquis Grissom, John Wetteland and Ken Hill. Then, two years ago, Loria appeared on the scene promising to lead the drive for a new downtown ballpark and an era of hope. However, he never came close to completing a stadium deal, and even some industry officials believe he bought the team with the idea of moving it to Washington. Now begins the probable final chapter. ``We know we're all in this together,'' Barrett said. ``We only have one year to make the most of this situation. I really want this team to win. I really want to win for this organization's sake.'' 
