In a disappointing blow to the year-long Precious Doe investigation, Kansas City police announced Wednesday that palm prints presumably from a missing Miami girl did not match Precious Doe's. Still, a chance remains that the girls could be the same person, police said. They are not certain that the prints they received from Miami on Wednesday were actually those of Rilya Wilson, the missing 5-year-old Florida girl. Homicide Sgt. Dave Bernard said the prints were submitted by a relative of Rilya's and had not been certified by any law enforcement agency. The prints, he said, were the kind taken for personal use on a form from a Florida law enforcement agency, similar to forms offered at school fairs or supermarkets. The prints contained Rilya's name, Bernard said, but no date or official's signature. Bernard said police planned to see whether the Miami office of Florida's Division for Children and Families, which was in charge of Rilya's case, had a certified copy of her palm prints. Given the trouble the Florida agency has had lately _ including losing track of Rilya's whereabouts for 15 months _ he said he was not sure whether those prints would be any more reliable. So police now hope for a DNA match. They are seeking a blood sample from Rilya's mother to check her DNA profile against Precious Doe's. That test would be more conclusive than palm prints, and Bernard said he intended to rely on DNA to decide whether Precious Doe is Rilya Wilson. Miami police were heading to Cleveland to interview Rilya's mother. Bernard said he planned to check today to see how soon they could get a blood sample. With that sample in hand, Kansas City police could announce whether they have a match with Precious Doe in as early as three weeks. In addition to any potential DNA evidence, police are looking at other possible links in the two cases. ``There are some other things that have come to light that strengthen our hope that this might our little girl,'' said Capt. Randy Hopkins of the homicide unit, but he declined to elaborate. Precious Doe is the name given by community activists to an unidentified, decapitated girl found April 28, 2001, in a wooded area near 59th Street and Kensington Avenue. Her head was found wrapped in a trash bag three days later, about 100 yards away from where her body was dumped. Her identity _ and that of her killer _ has baffled police. Police said Precious Doe was about 3 to 6 years old and had a crescent-shaped birthmark on her left shoulder. Rilya would have been four years old when she disappeared in January 2001; her records did not reflect that she had any birthmarks. Police and the Kansas City and Miami communities were eager to embrace the potential link between the girls. Police said the physical characteristics of the girls were very similar. And the scenario under which Rilya disappeared could explain why, a year later, no one has come forward to identify Precious Doe. Florida child welfare officials had not noticed until last week that Rilya had been missing. When the Miami media broke the story about Rilya's disappearance, a police tip hot line there received only one call. The caller suggested that police contact Kansas City investigators about Precious Doe. The tip was relayed to Kansas City police Monday night. On Tuesday, Kansas City police worked by telephone with Miami-Dade police, who sent Rilya's palm prints by fax and e-mail. Neither method, however, produced an image crisp enough to examine. Miami-Dade police then sent the prints through an overnight mail service. The package arrived about 10 a.m. Wednesday, but no employee was in the Police Department mail room to accept it, and the driver left with the package. Homicide detectives then called to request the driver's return and had the package about 30 minutes later. Two separate certified fingerprint examiners checked the two sets of left palm prints for similarities. The examiners, Kathy Hentges and Alice Dearing, said Precious Doe's prints showed a loop pattern below the pinkie and ring fingers on the palm. The Miami prints showed no such pattern. ``These were not made by the same individual,'' said Carl Carlson, supervisor of the Kansas City fingerprint identification unit. Although Wednesday's news was a disappointment, Bernard said, ``it ain't over 'til it's over.'' ``We were guardedly hopeful,'' he said at a 3 p.m. news conference at Police Headquarters. ``I still don't know conclusively it's not her.'' Bernard said the extra media attention on Precious Doe at the news conference, which was packed with dozens of reporters, could only help the case. ``There were so many news agencies here,'' he said. ``Just having the publicity is a valuable asset to spread the word.'' Bernard will have a chance to spread that word this morning with an interview on NBC's ``Today'' show. Results of the failed print match were not disclosed until Wednesday afternoon's news conference. Homicide detectives working on the case said they were not told until just before it began. Just before the news conference, the department gave the news to officials from the community group Move Up and to Mayor Pro-Tem Alvin Brooks, who have been working for Precious Doe from the beginning. J.T. Brown, executive director of Move Up, said that, although the test results were disappointing, the investigation had seen other ups and downs. ``We've experienced disappointment before,'' he said. ``It's been a long ride. Things are going to happen in the near future as a result of all this good work. Keep the hope alive.'' Brown said a bright side of Wednesday's announcement was the possibility that the missing Miami girl could still be alive somewhere. Brooks said he would continue praying. ``At least, there is something that the police can continue to work with,'' he said. ``I'm disappointed, but I'm still optimistic.'' Billy Stegall, the local volunteer who discovered Precious Doe's head, said he had studied the Florida girl's image in the newspaper for an hour on Wednesday, and was sure she was the young murder victim. The Kansas City man said he cried when he learned that the palm prints did not match. ``It hurt because I thought it was her, I really did,'' he said. ``I just can't understand why kids come up missing and come up dead, and no one can identify them. I do not understand that.'' Yolanda Roseby runs her church's Web site and used it to publicize the Precious Doe case. The Kansas City woman, who attends St. John Christian Methodist Episcopal Church in Richmond, called the latest findings ``disheartening.'' ``I found myself getting emotional that she was still not connected to a family,'' Roseby said. ``But now, it makes me want to work even harder.'' Other community leaders, who watched the news conference from behind a wall of more than a dozen television cameras, expressed similar disappointments. Among them was Ron McMillan, who said his ``heart was broken'' by the announcement. ``I'm totally disappointed,'' McMillan said. ``It was a total roller-coaster ride.'' xxx 
