Utility company TXU did not willfully abuse the state's new deregulated electricity market and won't make a penny in profits off practices now drawing scrutiny from lawmakers and regulators, a company official said Wednesday. Speaking to industry and regulatory officials, a TXU director blamed uncertainty about the new deregulated system for company decisions in August that led to more than $17 million in unearned revenues. But the company won't keep any of the money, said Brad Jones, TXU's director of markets and regulation. Under market rules, he said, TXU must surrender the extra revenue to customers, probably by discounting electric bills. ``There's no profit for any of this,'' Jones said. TXU is among six companies _ including Enron and Houston's Reliant Energy Service _ being investigated by the Texas Public Utility Commission. The PUC is trying to determine if the companies manipulated flaws in the state's new deregulated market. All told, the activities generated about $28.7 million in unearned revenues for the six companies, according to PUC estimates. More than half of that went to TXU, the single biggest electricity provider in the state. But in one of the broadest defenses of the company's actions to date, Jones said that TXU also paid various offsetting charges _ and that the net potential revenue may not exceed $3 million. Whatever the final amount, the excess revenue will eventually flow back to customers, either through a slight discount on bills in 2004, or sometime earlier through a pending legal settlement, Jones said. Although PUC investigators do not allege criminal wrongdoing, agency officials say they will probably require TXU, Enron, Reliant, Constellation Power Source, Mirant Americas Energy Marketing and American Electric Power Service to make refunds to companies potentially harmed by the activities under investigation. PUC spokesman Terry Hadley said TXU and other companies under scrutiny have been directed to come up with a refund plan by June 1. The PUC will conduct another hearing on the matter May 10. One official at a separate power company noted that the same quirk that financially rewarded TXU or its customers could lead to financial penalties for other companies or their customers. A PUC staffer said that even if TXU did not profit directly from its actions, they could lead to an unfair competitive edge for the company. (ONLINE: www.puc.state.tx.us) (Visit the Star-Telegram's online services on the World Wide Web: www.star-telegram.com) nn 
