Buildings inside the Church of the Nativity compound were briefly aflame Wednesday night after rifle fire at Manger Square ignited into the worst skirmish at the compound since the beginning of the siege early last month. The rifle fire began shortly before midnight, and quickly escalated into a rolling crescendo of gunfire. Half a dozen flares were then shot into the air, bathing the church and its adjacent buildings in a brilliant white light while stray red tracer rounds rose into the sky. About 25 minutes after the gunfire began, orange fire began to lick out from within the compound. Although it was impossible to fully assess the damage in the darkness and the smoke, it did not appear that fire had breached the 1,400-year-old basilica, built on the ground where Christians believe Jesus was born. Flames seemed instead to be rising from adjacent buildings, and were largely extinguished or burned out within an hour. Israeli military officials said the fire was put out by Palestinians in the compound, who refused Israeli offers of assistance and hastily organized themselves into a brigade. It was not immediately clear Wednesday night who started the shooting _ the Palestinians inside the compound or the Israeli soldiers who have surrounded it. Each side blamed the other. ``They tried to attack the church,'' said a Palestinian man inside the compound who was reached by cellular phone as the gunfire raged outside. Dr. Dore Gold, former ambassador to the United Nations and a senior adviser to Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, called the Palestinian claim a baseless lie, and said people inside the compound had deliberately set it ablaze. ``The fire was caused by an act of Palestinian arson, it was not caused by an exchange of gunfire,'' Gold said. He added, ``Israel takes seriously its commitment to respect the holy sites of Christendom in Bethlehem, and will do everything in its power to protect that area.'' In Ramallah, Yasser Arafat, the Palestinian leader, waiting to leave his compound, was seething in anger and shouted at reporters: ``This is a crime! This is a crime! What happens to me here is not important. What is important is what is happening in the Church of the Nativity.'' Israel said none of its soldiers suffered injuries during the shooting; Palestinian tallies varied. One man said from inside the church that none had been hurt. Another man told reporters that three men had been wounded. It was not clear what had caused the injuries _ the gunfighting or the firefighting. Lt. Col. Olivier Rafowicz said the fires Wednesday night began after Palestinians in the compound opened a sustained barrage of shooting against Israeli soldiers at the Bethlehem Peace Center, the large building in Manger Square where the two sides have been trying to negotiate a settlement to the siege since last week. The colonel said Israeli soldiers in the area, a mix of paratroopers and snipers, did not return fire directly, but rather shot into the night sky. ``We did not make any damage to the church,'' he said. ``We did not fire at them. We fired only into the air.'' Several explosions were heard in the area of the compound, accompanied by bright flashes of light, but it was not clear what had caused them. Israel said it did not use any heavy weapons during the shooting. (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.) The incident Wednesday night came after a fruitless day for the negotiating teams. Palestinian negotiators have said they will not meet their Israeli counterparts again until Israel allows food to be delivered to the 180 to 200 people believed to be inside, and no progress was made on this issue Wednesday. ``Talks are at a complete standstill,'' an Israeli military official said a few hours before the shooting and fires began. There was violence at the church earlier Wednesday as well. At about noon, a Palestinian was struck by sniper fire; he was evacuated early in the afternoon, accompanied by another Palestinian, who did not return. The Israeli military, which says that roughly two dozen of the men remaining inside are terrorists, did not identify either man or provide information on their conditions. Also on Wednesday, the Israeli curfew was lifted at about 3 p.m. and about 30 women and children marched from town to the church, and when they reached a military barricade near the square, the children threw stones. Witnesses said Israeli soldiers fired into the air to disperse the crowd. 
