You can almost hear the sighs of relief from chefs when the first signs of spring show up on restaurant tables. Finally, fresh peas and morels and greens and all those delicacies that quicken the appetite. Chef Eric Brennan of the Harvest in Cambridge says he starts plotting out spring menus ``around February,'' weary of ``root vegetables and braising, braising, braising.'' But there has to be a careful balance, Brennan says. ``You'll get a warm day and the diners all want everything spring.'' But, he adds, ``you can't turn the menu over completely.'' Spring produce isn't really available and besides that, chilly weather can return the next day. So he's dipping into spring with a chilled asparagus soup with crabmeat salad for lunch, but sticking to hot soups such as Blue Swimmer crab bisque with sherry, crabmeat, and tapioca for dinner. Alaskan halibut is in season, Brennan says, which he sears and serves with a pan-roast of lobster, the season's first ramps, and tarragon. Grilled rack of lamb comes with a gratin of spring artichokes, green garlic, and spinach, and roast breast of guinea hen with charred Vidalias and an orange-ginger-rhubarb sauce. At Lumiere in West Newton, chef and co-owner Michael Leviton creates an appetizer of shad roe with watercress, pancetta, and a sauce ravigotte. Wild king salmon from the West Coast has a shower of roasted artichokes and ramps along with Israeli couscous and a green sauce. His pork chops get a seasonal boost, too, with fava and soy beans, bacon, mint, and a sweet-hot and sour jus. For dessert, there's rhubarb and pistachio Napoleon served with orange ice cream and orange compote, and a feather-light lime sorbet with candied cashews and lemongrass-ginger syrup. Mark Usewicz, chef at The Independent in Union Square, Somerville, blends the old with the new by recreating his grandmother's spring pea soup. His updated bowls feature morel mushrooms and fava beans to give more texture and color. Usewicz stuffs veal loin with spinach and serves it with braised artichokes. He features the season's first English peas with roast halibut and littleneck clams. Asparagus gets headline status in an appetizer of asparagus and marinated oyster mushrooms with shaved Parmesan, and acts as a supporting star with grilled rainbow trout, morels, and country ham. At the Beacon Hill Bistro, chef Al Soto is easing into spring with dishes that solve the quandry of 75 degrees one day, 40 the next. One of his favorites is octopus with lots of tomatoes, onions, and chickpeas. Arugula is dressed with a vinaigrette and garnished with crispy Spanish glass eels. Soto loves simple pasta dishes such as strozzapreti with wild arugula and a special cheese from the Loire Valley called Mimolette, which, he says, tastes like a spring Parmesan. He cooks the pasta risotto-style, a technique he learned while working in New York City for Daniel Boulud. The pasta is lightly browned and and then broth is added slowly. ``With summer coming and people watching their weight,'' Soto says, ``I look for ways to add layers of flavor without weight.'' Chef-owner Christopher Bussell at Butterfish in Cambridge offers a refreshingly light appetizer of lobster in a mango salsa served in a martini glass. Indian spices and tamarind coat grilled swordfish, served with poppyseed bliss potatoes and spicy greens. And he brought back his roast lamb prepared two ways _ chops and rillettes with white bean and fava bean ragout. L'Espalier in Back Bay features chef-owner Frank McClelland's imaginative take on spring. Shad roe sauteed golden and crisp with house-cured bacon is served with local asparagus and sorrel, and served over peas. Wellfleet oysters are very popular at L'Espalier, McClelland says, and he accompanies them with a Meyer lemon and avocado souffle, a spoonful of American caviar and a salad of spring onion shoots and brioche. Small chickens, called pouissin, are breaded with red sumac and then served with ramps and the chef's grandmother's orange and mushroom pot pie. In the South End, Hamersley's Bistro revels in the new season with chef and co-owner Gordon Hamersley's grilled asparagus and oyster mushroom salad with truffle vinaigrette and Parmesan crostini. Lobster is accompanied by peas, morels, baby onions, and cream; lamb gets a side of spring vegetable stew with white beans. For dessert, there's rhubarb shortcake with strawberry compote. The Bay Tower Room in downtown Boston is lightening up its menu for spring with lamb consomme with spring morels and fava beans, a marinated and grilled Vidalia onion salad, and halibut crusted with roasted tomato and with artichoke puree. Desserts include a strawberry tart. Chef Ken Duckworth sears sea scallops with sorrel at Maison Robert at Old City Hall. Baby monkfish is roasted on the bone and served with fiddlehead ferns and new potatoes; pan-roasted young chicken comes with morels and asparagus. Outdoor patio dining is days away, depending on the weather, with such dishes as foie gras pate on brioche, trout almondine, and steak frites. In the North End, chef-owner Anthony Caturano at Prezza is offering handmade pea tortelli with Virginia ham and Parmesan, and roasted halibut with olive oil mashed potatoes, seared ramps, rock shrimp, and dandelion greens. Wood-grilled quail is served with creamed green cabbage and fresh morels. At Gargoyle's on the Square in Davis Square, Somerville, chef Neal Palmer puts grilled asparagus on toast and serves it with Serrano ham and Zamoraro cheese, a poached egg, and black truffle vinaigrette. West Coast halibut comes in a shrimp consomme with spring peas, tomato, tarragon, and pea tendrils. And skillet-browned rainbow trout is accompanied by roasted artichokes and fingerling potatoes with a lemon-caper and Nicoise olive vinaigrette. The new chef at eat in Union Square, Somerville, Pete Sueltenfuss, is offering foraged mushrooms in a broth with pea tendrils; feta and black olive pizza with arugula and almond pesto; and roasted cod tail and baby artichokes with potato pancakes and caper sauce. Grilled hangar steak comes with pea and fava bean risotto. At Rialto in Cambridge's Charles Hotel, chef and co-owner Jody Adams stresses simplicity and flavor on her menu with warm asparagus salad with morels and shaved cured foie gras; fresh green pea soup with shaved radicchio and pistachios. Halibut is braised in ginger-lemongrass broth with cilantro, basil, and mint; grilled pork tenderloins and braised fresh bacon come with littlenecks, pancetta, spring greens, and fiddleheads. Spring is also the time for new beginnings. Caffe Umbra is set to throw open its doors May 7 on Washington Street in the South End. Chef-owner Laura Brennan plans a first menu of cream of lettuce soup with lobster butter, crispy skate with sorrel and smoked bacon, and risotto with whipped ricotta, English peas, lemon rind, and bacon. 
