FOR FRIDAY AMs 	All stories will be coded ``f'' unless otherwise noted. 	For information on stories, or for reruns, please call: 888-346-9867 or 212-556-1927. For information on NYT photos and graphics, please call 888-603-1036 or 212-556-4204. 	Business Day Front Page of The New York Times, Friday, May 3. 	(Lede story) 	KMART-INQUIRE (Undated) _ Kmart is beginning an investigation into the activities of some of its former top executives. By Constance L. Hays. 	(Scheduled to move by 9 p.m. ET.) 	(Top display) 	PITT-SEC (Washington) _ Harvey Pitt was insistent. The way companies account for the stock options they give to executives, he told a Senate panel in late March, had absolutely nothing to do with the collapse of Enron, whatever the conventional wisdom held. Two weeks later, Pitt, the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, delivered a speech at a law school in Chicago outlining a set of proposals to eliminate abuses associated with stock options. The plan was more modest than the one he had dismissed; still, he acknowledged that ``over the last few months, institutions and professions have been rocked by the taint of misconduct and greed.'' By Steven Labaton. 	With graphic. 	(Scheduled to move by 8:30 p.m. ET.) 	(Middle right) 	ANDERSEN-ENRON (Undated) _ In the end, the scuttling of talks aimed at settling securities lawsuits against Arthur Andersen by Enron stakeholders came down to a decision by Wall Street to insist on its innocence in Enron's collapse. Several big banks are in the curious position of being both plaintiffs and defendants in the litigation, which is seeking billions of dollars for the losses of investors, lenders and employees. The banks are plaintiffs by virtue of being creditors of the fallen energy firm. They are defendants because shareholders' lawyers say the banks' financial dealings helped cause Enron's failure. By Jonathan D. Glater. 	(Scheduled to move by 9 p.m. ET.) 	(Bottom display) 	CHASE-OUTLOOK (Undated) _ J.P. Morgan Chase's ability to recover from a slew of recent losses rests largely in the hands of two men, who are both looking to restore tarnished reputations and perhaps eyeing the top job someday. Geoffrey Boisi, now the co-head of J.P. Morgan's investment bank, left Goldman, Sachs &AMP; Company more than a decade ago after executives say he lost out in a bid to lead that firm. David Coulter, who runs J.P. Morgan's consumer business, was chief executive of Bank of America until it merged with NationsBank, and a power struggle with Hugh McColl sent him out the door in 1997. They are both undertaking critical jobs. By Riva D. Atlas. 	(Scheduled to move by 8:30 p.m. ET.) 	(Bottom) 	DELL-NORRIS-COLUMN (New York) _ Gambling on your own stock price is not something companies often advertise they are doing. But for some companies, particularly technology companies, it was a popular strategy in the 1990s. Now it is coming back to haunt them. The costs are not showing up in financial statements, but they are huge. By Floyd Norris. 	With graphic. 	(Scheduled to move by 8:30 p.m. ET.) 	Here are tonight's columns and regular features: 	The New York Times is running wire stories on the stock and bond markets. 	ABERCROMBIE-AD-COLUMN (New York) _ Abercrombie &AMP; Fitch, the apparel retailer known for sexually provocative quarterly catalogs dressed _ or undressed _ to resemble magazines, is now taking a commercially provocative step. By Stuart Elliott. 	(Scheduled to move by 9 p.m. ET.) 	WORLD-BIZ-BRIEFS (Undated) _ World business news in brief. 	(The briefs have moved.) 	TECH-BRIEFS (Undated) _ Technology news in brief. 	(Scheduled to move by 9 p.m. ET.) 	BIZGLANCE (Undated) _ Digest of the day's financial stories. 	(Scheduled to move by 9 p.m. ET.) 	(Editors: All clients receive all budgets, but only full-service clients receive all stories. Please check your level of service to determine which stories you will receive.) 
