``Spider-Man,'' the live-action version of the classic Marvel comic that opens in theaters today, racked up more advanced ticket sales Thursday than any other movie so far this year on Fandango Inc., one of the leading online ticket sellers. ``We are selling a ticket a second,'' said Sallie Green, vice president of marketing and product development for Santa Monica-based Fandango. ``I just think people are so excited to see it because it's getting great buzz and the reviews are good.'' The Sony Pictures Entertainment release, which stars Tobey Maguire as Spider-Man and his alter ego, Peter Parker, bows in 3,615 screens nationwide today and is expected to dominate at the box office for at least the next two weekends. Green said advance sales have climbed all week. By Thursday afternoon, ``Spider-Man'' accounted for 97 percent of all Fandango sales. Running a distant second were advance sales for ``The Scorpion King'' which has ruled at the box office and on Fandango the past two weekends. ``When they go to the theater on opening weekend, the avid moviegoer wants to make sure they have a seat to the show they want to see,'' Green said. Customers who buy the advance tickets, either online or by telephone, are assured of a ticket on opening night at their preferred time. For a service fee of between 75 cents and $1, they are spared the hassles of waiting in lines that typically stretch around the multiplexes for such highly anticipated releases. The other players in the fast-growing niche of advance ticket sales are Moviefone and MovieTickets.com. All three services saw sales jump to unprecedented heights last fall with phenomenal business for ``Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone'' and ``The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring.'' The next big advance ticket splash is expected for ``Star Wars: Episode II -- Attack of the Clones'' which opens in less than two weeks. Green said Fandango has already begun selling tickets in the few states where some theaters have already determined screening times.  XXX 
