The Los Angeles Dodgers are one of the top defensive teams in baseball, possess a dominating starting rotation and have a bullpen capable of protecting leads. They are also one of the top hitting teams in the National League. Yet there is a vital cog of the ballclub malfunctioning. It's the heart of the lineup, and manager Jim Tracy said that is holding the Dodgers back. The shortcoming was on display again Wednesday, when the Dodgers squandered two bases-loaded situations in a 4-0 loss to the Cincinnati Reds in front of a season-low 23,346 at Dodger Stadium -- the fifth time in 27 games the Dodgers have been shut out. Right-hander Hideo Nomo (2-4) threw eight solid innings and struck out 10 but never had a chance at a victory. The Dodgers have scored 10 runs in Nomo's six starts and were shut out in three of his four losses. ``We're playing very solid defensively, we're running the bases well and some of the question marks we had early in the season about getting people on base at the top of the order, we're doing a very adequate job of that,'' Tracy said. ``We are getting some production down at the bottom. We need some run-producing base hits when we're in a position to score runs. That's what's holding us up.'' Tracy put the onus of the last two days on the middle of the lineup, particularly Paul Lo Duca, Shawn Green and Brian Jordan. The Nos. 3 through 5 hitters are 3 for 23 in the last two games. In the series opener, the Dodgers scored just one run despite having the bases loaded in the fifth inning. Against Reds starter Joey Hamilton (2-1) on Wednesday, the Dodgers wasted two chances with the bases loaded. Lo Duca flied out to right field and Grudzielanek was thrown out at the plate by Juan Encarnacion trying to score to end the third inning, and Shawn Green grounded out to first on a 3-1 curveball by Gabe White to end the eighth. ``There is so much you can do,'' Tracy said. ``Early in the game, we put some runners in motion, we started runners (with) 3-1, 3-2 (counts). We're doing all those types of things. When you get to the point where you have three guys on -- there's not a whole lot of signs to give there when you're hitting there in the middle of your order ``You need production. That's all there is to that. But you go through things like that, like we've gone through the last couple of days. That's really the one thing right now that is holding this ballclub up from being awfully good, in my opinion.'' Said leadoff man Dave Roberts: ``It's frustrating and I'm guilty of it like anybody, and that's the lack of energy. If you take the innings where we have opportunities, there's just no energy. I don't know if it's playing at home or whatever. That's the most frustrating thing. You're going to lose games, but the word is energy. It seems like at home we just lack that. It's just crushing that Hideo threw another good game and we can't get anything for him.'' Nomo (2-4) had a double-digit strikeout performance for the 29th time in his career but again fell victim to a typically poor effort from the Dodgers lineup. The Reds took a 1-0 lead on Barry Larkin's leadoff homer in the first and Juan Encarnacion made it 2-0 with a leadoff homer in the fourth. ``We're struggling right now,'' Green said. ``I don't know if there's much more to say. We don't want to struggle, but we are.'' Cincinnati, which has won seven straight and nine of the last 11 at Chavez Ravine, can complete the three-game sweep today. The Dodgers (16-11) and Arizona each lost for the second straight day while San Francisco won, leaving the teams in a three-way tie atop the West Division. 
