Anaheim Angels manager Mike Scioscia promised his club would hit, he just didn't say it would happen all in one game. The Angels had their second-highest run total in club history in a 21-2 rout of the Cleveland Indians Tuesday night before 24,286 at Jacobs Field. The only time the Angels have scored more came on Aug. 25, 1979 -- 24 against the Toronto Blue Jays. The Angels totaled 22 hits, including four by Troy Glaus and three each by Darin Erstad, Bengie Molina and Jose Nieves. Glaus homered and drove in five, Erstad hit his first homer of the season and Jeff DaVanon homered and drove in four even though he didn't enter the game until the eighth inning. The Angels had been at or near the bottom of the league in several offensive categories until last week, when they started to hit. Since being shut out 1-0 in Seattle on April 23, the Angels have scored 54 runs during a five-game winning streak. Superstitious hitting coach Mickey Hatcher has been wearing his undershirt backwards during the streak, and Scioscia made it a point to make sure Hatcher had the shirt on backwards for Tuesday's game. ``Thank God it's not his underwear,'' Scioscia said. It got so bad for the Indians that what was left of the crowd, the second-smallest in Jacobs Field history, began cheering for the Angels as they approached the 20-run mark. The Angels have scored 20 runs or more four times in club history. ``It was pretty awesome,'' Molina said. ``It can be very good for us, for our confidence, that we can do it. That's a positive for us. We have to take advantage of that.'' Other Angels, though, shrugged the game off, just as they did when they were losing earlier in the season. ``It's just one game,'' left fielder Garret Anderson said. ``You can't get wrapped up in one game. Guys' personalities on this team are the same day to day. Guys are walking around the clubhouse the same way they were last week when we were getting our butts kicked. That's good to see. We have a lot of games to play.'' Erstad said he had not been a part of such an offensive display since college, when his Nebraska Cornhuskers beat Washington 35-15. And yes, he said, it was baseball, not football. He added that despite the club's early struggles, the hitters never lacked confidence. ``We're confident as a group regardless of what's going on,'' he said. ``(Reporters) made a big deal about it, but we believe in ourselves.'' Ten Angels batters had at least one hit, nine had at least one RBI and 11 scored at least one run. The Angels scored 10 runs in the eighth inning, the fifth largest single-inning total in club history and the most in one inning since they scored 13 on May 12, 1997 at home against the White Sox. All that offense would explain why Angels starter Ramon Ortiz smiled from ear to ear after the game. In Ortiz's previous four starts this season, the Angels had scored a total of nine runs. Not that he needed it Tuesday's showing. Ortiz (2-3) gave up one run and six hits in eight innings, lowering his ERA to 2.55. He's the only Angels starter to go at least six innings in all of his starts. In his past two starts, he's allowed one earned run in 16 innings against Mariners and Indians. ``This year is very different,'' Ortiz said. ``My mechanics are better, I have more concentration with every hitter. Before, when a guy gets a base hit, I try to do too much. Now I just focus on making a good pitch. I have very good command now.'' Indians starter C.C. Sabathia (2-3) didn't pitch all that poorly, giving up six runs (five earned) and seven hits in five innings. But the Angels offense exploded against the Indians' bullpen. Mark Wohlers was the worst of the group, giving up seven runs in two-thirds of an inning. 
