Police Chief David Williams _ the former Tarrant County sheriff _ and one of his officers have been working with expired peace officer licenses for months, throwing into question the validity of hundreds of citations and several arrests. Williams' and Sgt. Kevin Ancelet's licenses expired Aug. 31 because they failed to complete required coursework, said Steve Myers, spokesman for the Texas Commission on Law Enforcement Officer Standards and Education. ``If you have an expired license, you cannot work as a police officer,'' Myers said. Williams was hired as police chief in this town of 431 residents north of Fort Worth in January, about 13 months after ending a stormy eight-year stint as Tarrant County sheriff. He did not respond to telephone calls or a written request for comment. Ancelet, 38, denied that his license had expired. ``That's not correct,'' he said. ``I'm not going to give information over the phone. If you need to talk to me, send a request. I don't have time to talk to you.'' Mayor Kevin Jones would not say whether the town will refund the money collected from the citations. The amount could run into thousands of dollars. At a recent Board of Aldermen meeting, Town Secretary Jan Files said the Police Department issued 122 citations during February. The fines and court costs of those citations, if they are all collected, would amount to about $6,000, Files said. A similar case in Tarrant County last month forced the Sheriff's Department to refund six months' worth of tickets written by Constable Jack Allen, whose license had expired. Williams, 48, earns $28,000 as police chief and supervises two officers in Marshall Creek, which is between Roanoke and Flower Mound in North Texas. When he was sheriff, he earned about $107,000 annually and supervised about 1,300 employees for the state's third most-populous county. But he was often at odds with the Commissioners Court, against which he filed a lawsuit claiming the court did not allocate enough money to his department. He later dropped the lawsuit. When Williams and Ancelet were hired in Marshall Creek, town officials apparently failed to notify the state licensing agency. Consequently, the two did not receive letters notifying them to renew their licenses, Myers said. Williams did not complete the 40 hours of continuing education courses that the state requires. Ancelet completed the 40 hours but did not take a required investigative course, Myers said. (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL ADD FOLLOWS) The town also faces questions about the Police Department issuing traffic citations on U.S. 377 outside Marshall Creek. Williams and Mayor Jones have previously said the area in question is a part of Marshall Creek Park, which is federal property, and that the department had an agreement with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to patrol it. But the town's agreement with the Corps expired in September, Corps spokeswoman Anita Horky said. Under the agreement, the Marshall Creek Police Department needed permission from Denton County to patrol that section of U.S. 377. Permission was never sought or granted, said Kevin Patton, spokesman for the Denton County Sheriff's Department. After a reporter asked this week about the citations issued on U.S. 377, Williams said the department had ceased that practice. Laura Earles of Flower Mound paid Marshall Creek $154.25 for a speeding citation she received on U.S. 377. ``I'm mad that I paid the whole thing,'' she said. ``I mean, I didn't even know where Marshall Creek was. I thought that was Roanoke.'' (ONLINE: www.tcleose.state.tx.us) (Visit the Star-Telegram's online services on the World Wide Web: www.star-telegram.com) nn 
