It probably seemed like a good plan at the time. Lauded in the West for backing America's war on terror and admired at home for taking on both corrupt politicians and extremist mullahs while avoiding dictatorial excess, Gen. Pervez Musharraf must have thought that he would sail through this week's referendum on his assumed presidency and use it to cement himself into power. On April 30 the electorate duly granted the general a five-year presidential term. But his problems may only now be beginning. As bogus political exercises go, this one was a corker. The poll was conducted without the benefit of an electoral registry, identity cards were not obligatory and the usual polling stations were supplemented by tens of thousands of makeshift extra ones in railway stations, in offices, on street corners and in hotels. Businesses and government outfits were leaned on heavily to ensure that all their employees voted. Oodles of government money was lavished to plaster the country with posters depicting the general in a startling variety of outfits and to festoon the main streets with banners bearing such sentiments as ``We love Pakistan. We love Pervez Musharraf.'' The referendum question itself was phrased so as to make a ``No'' vote seem unthinkable. It asked the voter to endorse a five-year term in order to permit economic recovery, the restoration of democracy, the ending of extremism and ``the achievement of the vision'' of Muhammad Ali Jinnah, Pakistan's founder. Just in case, the ``Yes'' box was colored green, the color of Islam and the Pakistani flag. This being so, the official figure of 97.5 percent in favor is probably reasonably accurate. With all but a couple of tame general-supporting parties urging a boycott of a referendum they have rightly condemned as unconstitutional, the real test of the president's popularity was the turnout. Naturally, this is being fiercely contested. The opposition maintains that as few as 5 percent may have voted. The government is claiming a figure of more than 50 percent, which no one outside it finds remotely credible. Reporters found polling station after polling station all but deserted. At one, in a junior school in Lahore, only one woman and seven men had voted by late in the afternoon. No one, however, seems particularly interested in trying to overturn the result, which was predictable and changes very little. Instead attention is now focused on elections that must be held by October, according to the Supreme Court, which approved the general's seizure of power in 1999 but gave him only three years to clean up the country and restore the constitution he suspended. The general has always promised to respect that ruling. But over the past few months it has become clear that he has no intention of shuffling back to the barracks. He wants to stay on as president, with enhanced powers to oversee the work of the elected prime minister, and to institutionalize the armed forces' role in public life by means of a powerful National Security Council which the men in khaki would dominate. Referendum or no referendum, this will not be easy. The Supreme Court has now thrown a large monkey wrench into the works. Though it did not, as opponents of the general had hoped, rule the referendum exercise unconstitutional, it did the next best thing: The referendum, the court said in a judgment handed down on April 27, was perfectly legal, but only under the emergency regulations promulgated by the general himself after he seized power in 1999. Any conflict between it and the constitution _ which there evidently is, since the constitution says that the president must be elected by a college of Pakistan's national and local parliaments _ will have to be sorted out later. This puts the general in a quandary. He could rewrite the rules of the constitution, or simply refuse to restore it at all, but he has promised not to do this, and if he breaks that promise even the Americans may become hostile. The general's usefulness is already in some doubt, because of reports that many of the extremists he so obligingly jailed in January have subsequently been released. If, on the other hand, the general keeps his promise and restores the democratic constitution, the Supreme Court decision means he risks having his presidency declared legally invalid, despite the referendum. To keep his job, he would need to persuade parliament to amend the constitution or to elect him in the proper way. A convincing referendum result might have helped here. But neither event now looks particularly likely. One of the principal achievements of the Musharraf referendum has been to forge a tactical alliance between two of Pakistan's bitterest enemies, both former prime ministers, Benazir Bhutto and Nawaz Sharif, as well as between the secular parties and moderate religious ones such as Jamaat-e-Islami, who usually despise each other. All resent what increasingly looks like an attempt by Musharraf to prolong military rule in Pakistan indefinitely. The country's media, too, is universally hostile, where once it lavished praise. Associates of the general are therefore desperately casting around for parliamentary support in the hope that they can unpick this alliance. They have succeeded in fragmenting the Pakistan Muslim League, led by Nawaz Sharif, the prime minister that the general toppled and later expelled. But much of the party has remained aloof. Instead the general's men are looking for an understanding with the Pakistan People's Party, led by Benazir Bhutto, peculiar though that would be. Sensing the sudden new strength of her position, Bhutto has said that she will cooperate only if she can become prime minister for the third time, too large a pill for the general to swallow. This week she upped the stakes again by saying that she will soon return from exile in Dubai to contest the October elections even if, as seems likely, she is arrested as soon as she lands. So uncertain is the current political situation that many observers doubt whether the October elections will be held at all. The presence on Pakistani soil of al-Qaeda terrorists, and of Americans in hot pursuit of them, would seem to offer a perfect excuse for a postponement on the grounds of ``national security.'' The next six months look like a bumpy ride. 
