Maurice R. Greenberg, who as one of the longest-serving chief executives in America has been criticized for failing to develop a succession plan at the American International Group, reorganized his top ranks on Wednesday to provide for his eventual departure. But Greenberg, who will be 77 on Saturday, emphasized that he expected to remain in charge of this huge insurance and financial services company far into the future. ``I had a great-grandmother who lived to 108,'' he said, ``and she died in an accident.'' In making succession plans, Greenberg said he was not bending to any outside pressure. He created a seven-member office of the chairman and said that his eventual successor would probably come from that group. He named two members of the group _ Martin J. Sullivan and Edmund S.W. Tse, both AIG veterans with vast international experience _ as co-chief operating officers. But he discounted suggestions that he was creating a competition between them for the top job. ``We're not going to have a horse race,'' he told reporters at AIG's Art Deco tower near Wall Street. ``Horse races are destructive because the top people will leave. That's not going to happen here.'' Greenberg also appointed Frank G. Zarb, the former chairman of Nasdaq, as chairman of the board's executive committee. Greenberg said that ``if I took the wrong plane,'' Zarb, 67, who joined the AIG board last year, could step in as nonexecutive chairman. Greenberg, who in 35 years as chief executive turned a minor player in insurance into a world leader, said that he had given his board the name of an AIG executive who could immediately take over as chief executive. But lest anyone take anything for granted, he noted that the fortunes of the emergency successor and other members of the office of the chairman could shift. Greenberg, widely known as Hank, cautioned, too, against concluding that Sullivan, who is 48, might have the inside track over Tse, who is 16 years older. So who is the executive Greenberg would trust to take the helm? ``None of your business,'' he snapped, then smiled. AIG's lack of a formal succession plan has been a cause of increasing concern among investors and analysts, contributing, they have said, to the stock's decline from a peak of $103.69 in late 2000. The stock rose $1.49 on Wednesday, to close at $70.61, but the reaction on Wall Street was generally muted. ``It is going to take a while to see how the new management structure works itself out,'' said Kevin Rendino, who manages the Merrill Lynch Basic Value Fund. For most analysts, the members of the group are strangers, difficult to evaluate. ``Is this a purely cosmetic change or is there truly going to be a change in how AIG is doing business?'' asked J. Paul Newsome, an analyst at Lehman Brothers. For his part, Greenberg, who plans to celebrate his birthday by playing tennis, said AIG's operations were unlikely to change much. Essentially, his plan exposes long-time, behind-the-scenes leaders of the company to wider responsibilities and greater visibility even as they continue to report to him. Until now, the new co-chief operating officers had been specialists in international coverage. Sullivan had focused on property casualty and liability lines; Tse on life insurance. Now, Greenberg said, they will be involved in all phases of the business, with operations in 140 countries and $500 billion in assets. Investors had expected Sullivan to be part of Greenberg's plan, but Tse was a surprise. Another surprise was the failure of Jay S. Wintrob, 45, to make the group of seven. He came to AIG in the acquisition of SunAmerica, one of the leading variable annuity companies, and has been running that unit. He was promoted to executive vice president along with three others. As anticipated, Howard I. Smith, AIG's 57-year-old chief financial officer, was named to the office of the chairman with the added title of vice chairman. The others in the group are Donald P. Kanak, 49, who runs operations in Japan and Korea; Kristian P. Moor, 43, who is in charge of commercial insurance in the United States; and Win J. Neuger, 52, who oversees AIG's investments. Both Sullivan and Tse accompanied Greenberg on a just-completed trip to Asia, recalling a journey Greenberg made to China with his son Evan in early 2000. He announced then that Evan was heir apparent. But nine months later, Evan resigned without explanation, leaving no other apparent successor. He is now an executive at Ace Ltd., a big Bermuda insurer. Another of Greenberg's sons, Jeffrey, regarded as a likely successor before he left AIG in 1995, now runs Marsh &AMP; McLennan, the world's largest insurance broker. No, Greenberg said, contrary to recurring rumors, he does not have a plan to bring Jeffrey back to AIG. Both sons are doing well elsewhere, he said, adding, ``It makes for much better family relationships.'' 
