Gore Vidal is not subtle. The acerbic and pugnacious writer and thinker is the kind of person who draws extreme reactions. There are those enamored of Vidal's jaundiced view of the US government, military, and law enforcement establishment. And there are those who consider him an extremist and apologist for criminals and terrorists. Vidal's latest collection of essays undoubtedly will reaffirm each camp's position on the prolific novelist, essayist, and playwright. The title of the book, ``Perpetual War for Perpetual Peace: How We Got To Be So Hated,'' provides a hint of what is to come. It was a bestseller in Italy, where Vidal lives. Yet, given this nation's still raw emotions over Sept. 11, the book might receive a chillier reception here. In an essay that focuses on Sept. 11, Vidal, in eloquent, sharp-witted, and knowledgeable prose, ruminates on the causes and consequences of the terrorist attacks orchestrated by Osama Bin Laden. ``In the eyes of many Muslims, the Christian West, currently in alliance with Zionism, has for a thousand years tried to dominate the lands of Umma _ the true believers,'' Vidal writes. ``That is why Osama is seen by so many simple folk as the true heir to Saladin, the great warrior king who defeated Richard of England and the western crusaders.'' This passage typifies the theme and tone of Vidal's collection: ``Once we meditate upon the unremitting violence of the United States against the rest of the world, while relying upon pretexts that, for sheer flimsiness, might have even given Hitler pause when justifying some of his most baroque lies, one begins to understand why Osama struck at us from abroad in the name of one billion Muslims whom we have encouraged, through our own preemptive acts of war as well as relentless demonization of them through the media, to regard us in _ how shall I put it _ less than an amiable light.'' Vidal also rejects the justification of waging war in Afghanistan to topple the Taliban and hunt down Bin Laden and his terrorist network, comparing the campaign to destroying Palermo, Italy, in order to eliminate the Mafia. And he raises valid concerns that Sept. 11 could lead to an erosion of civil liberties and unfair backlash against immigrants, particularly from Muslim or Arabic nations. ``The awesome physical damage Osama and company did us on Dark Tuesday is as nothing compared to the knockout blow to our vanishing liberties _ the Antiterrorism Act of 1996 combined with the recent requests to Congress for additional special powers to wiretap without judicial order; to deport lawful permanent residents, visitors, and undocumented immigrants without due process, and so on,'' Vidal writes. ``As I write, U.S. `Concentration Camp X-Ray' is filling up at marine base Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. No one knows whether or not these unhappy residents are prisoners of war or just plain evildoers. . . .'' Certainly, Vidal makes valid observations about the festering and long-brewing anger at the United States, precipitated, in part, by America's support of corrupt and authoritarian Muslim regimes. But while Vidal most assuredly brings a different perspective to the debate, it is grating that he fails to adequately acknowledge the horrific toll the terrorists exacted on thousands of innocent civilians. The same can be said for Timothy McVeigh's heinous deed. He was put to death by lethal injection after being convicted in the 1995 bombing of the federal building in Oklahoma City, an explosion that killed 168 people. Vidal and McVeigh corresponded and Vidal asserts that McVeigh could not have carried out the bombing by himself. Vidal says that the investigation was less than thorough and that there is still evidence to be uncovered. ``Our rulers for more than half a century have made sure that we are never to be told the truth about anything that our government has done to other people, not to mention, in McVeigh's case, our own,'' Vidal writes. ``All we are left with are blurred covers of Time and Newsweek . . . while The New York Times and its chorus of imitators spin complicated stories about mad Osama and cowardly McVeigh, thus convincing most Americans that only a couple of freaks would ever dare strike at a nation that sees itself as close to perfection as any human society can come.'' This is classic Vidal and it will infuriate many readers. But Vidal is a gifted and shrewd writer and an important voice in the debate over the shifting role of the United States in the world. 
