Every major automaker except Ford Motor reported sales increases in April, evidence of an economic recovery that helped propel the stock market Wednesday. Overall, automobile sales rose 3 percent in April from a year earlier, according to Ward's AutoInfoBank. Ford's sales fell 7.4 percent in April, despite strength in the Land Rover and Jaguar division. But sales by General Motors rose 12.4 percent in April from a year earlier, a more robust performance than analysts expected. Chrysler's sales rose 3 percent. Nissan's sales jumped nearly 15 percent, helped by a redesigned Altima sedan and a new luxury car, the G35, from its Infiniti division. Honda's sales in the United States rose 0.3 percent while sales by Toyota increased 1.1 percent. ``The shock is how strong it is,'' said Wendy B. Needham, an analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston, referring to the industry's sales results. ``That turned the whole market around today.'' Analysts had once expected the barrage of interest-free financing deals offered soon after the Sept. 11 attacks to cannibalize sales this year, but that has not happened. Some financial analysts are starting to believe that car demand has grown in the last five years, whether the market is at a top or a bottom. ``We're in completely new territory now,'' Needham said. In April, sales were helped by the beginnings of a recovery in purchases by corporations and car rental companies, which have begun buying for their vehicle fleets after sharply cutting back following the terrorist attacks. ``It was a clear depressant in the first quarter,'' said Paul Ballew, GM's general director for global market and industry analysis, referring to sales to fleet customers. ``Fleet deliveries for the industry were down about 20 percent and we were actually worse than that in the first quarter,'' he said. It did not help that one of GM's biggest customers, ANC Rental, the operator of Alamo and National, filed for bankruptcy protection in November. More recently, ANC has arranged financing and started to replenish its car fleet. That has helped. In April, fleet sales at GM rose by 4 percent from a month earlier. GM also stepped up its production Wednesday, adding 300,000 vehicles to the 1.5 million it said it would turn out in the second quarter. Looking ahead, however, there might be some slowing of production in the industry. Following the free-financing deals last year, automakers stepped up production early this year to rebuild inventories. That buildup accounted for a quarter of the growth in the nation's growth domestic product in the first quarter, according to Jarlath Costello, Ford's senior domestic economist. ``The contribution from inventories will likely ease over the next few quarters,'' he said, ``suggesting the pace of GDP growth will moderate also.'' GM also announced a new incentive plan this week, 1-2-3, to replace its previous package. The cost of incentive plans has been high for the Big Three automakers, eroding profits while foreign competitors have kept sales strong with lesser offers. GM officials said that the new plan would bring an end to interest-free financing deals and replace them with rebates. But the new plan will cost roughly the same, the company said. Automakers often switch among rebates and interest-free financing, and other offers, as a way to provide a fresh coat of paint on their deals. GM, which has been propelled almost exclusively by growth in sales of pickups and sport utility vehicles, also showed growth in car sales for the first time since last October. ``The fundamentals are not as strong as they were back in 1999 or 2000 when we were at the peak of the expansion, but we have low inflation, relatively strong income growth, favorable interest rates, improvement in the employment front,'' Ballew of GM said. ``All in all, not a bad backdrop as we try to gauge the direction of the industry.'' 
