Once again, the goddess was inspired by the responses to her problem of what to do with excess Girl Scout cookies. She thanks her followers for pointing out a simple, heartfelt solution: share with those less fortunate. Tina Fisher, of metro Atlanta, writes, ``Instead of trying to find ways to get rid of those extra Girl Scout cookies in recipes, why don't you give them to the poor? Our church has a mission downtown that serves the homeless population of Atlanta. They would be very happy to receive any extra Girl Scout cookies. ``It's called SafeHouse Ministries, at 89 Ellis St., Atlanta. Each Wednesday night they serve a spaghetti dinner to over 200 homeless people. Your Girl Scout cookies would make a great dessert at this dinner. Please encourage your readers to donate unwanted food (and who needs the extra calories, anyway?) as an alternative to storing them in the freezer. Phyllis B. Heffron of Ames, Iowa (yes, the goddess casts her shadow throughout this great nation), seconds Ms. Fisher's sentiments. ``My solution to getting rid of the three boxes of Girl Scout cookies my husband bought was to take them to the church kitchen on Saturday evening with a note: `These cookies are to be used for Sunday morning coffee hour.' Worked like a charm!'' The goddess is sure we all know a school, an after-care program, a place of worship or a workplace that would enjoy a sweet surprise. Yes, she knows they are not the most nutritious food to share, but sometimes something a little bad does a lot of good! P.S. While the goddess will happily donate those unopened Tagalongs and Do Si Dos to her godlings' teachers lounge, she could not resist stealing a few from her better half's stash of frozen Thin Mints to try the following recipe, sent in by one of her faithful readers. Pretty tasty. Judy Dyer, of metro Atlanta, sent in this recipe and note: ``Here is a wonderful recipe using Girl Scout mint cookies. It is about 35-40 years old, and my mother, Elsie Clements (a Girl Scout leader herself), made this pie for many years.'' P.S.S. Look on ajc.com/living/food for a wildly rich, calories-to-the-wind, yummy ice cream pie made with two types of Girl Scout cookies. DESSERT Girl Scout Mint Cookie Pie Makes 8 servings Preparation time: 15 minutes, plus 2 hours to chill Cooking time: 35 minutes Nonstick cooking spray 14 mint cookies, chilled 3 egg whites Pinch salt 3/4 cup granulated sugar 1/2 teaspoon vanilla 1/2 cup chopped walnuts Preheat oven to 325 degrees. Spray a 9-inch pie plate with nonstick spray. Between waxed paper with a rolling pin, crush cookies (or use a food processor) and set aside. Beat egg whites and salt together until soft peaks form. Gradually beat in sugar, beating until stiff peaks form. Add vanilla. Fold in cookie crumbs and nuts. Spread evenly in pie plate. Bake for 35 minutes. Chill for 2 hours before serving. Serve with sweetened whipped cream on top. PER SERVING: 192 calories (percent of calories from fat, 42), 2 grams protein, 28 grams carbohydrates, 1 gram fiber, 9 grams fat, no cholesterol, 85 milligrams sodium. FAVE FOOD SITES Kate Webster, of metro Atlanta, writes: ``This is a fun Web site that I use a lot. What I like most about www.cheftochef.net are the recipes and newsletter. There are a ton of recipes that you have access to, which is particularly helpful if you have a certain ingredient (e.g., butternut squash). The recipes are rated into three categories: `P' for premium tested, `R' for reliable source and `U' for unrated (many recipes do fall into this category). It can be overwhelming, initially, but you get used to it. ``A friend was once looking for a recipe for Coca-Cola cake that someone had made her and that she loved. I found 18 versions. ``The newsletter is sent in a daily e-mail. Each week, one chef with a particular theme is featured (recent themes have included `Soup for Supper,' `Oriental Theme,' `Vegetarian,' `The Art of Sauce Making,' `Personal Chef Recipes' and `Spring Recipes'). Each newsletter offers a little education, a little lore, two or three recipes and a shopping list at the end.'' RECIPE SWAP ``Approximately 20 years ago, I copied a recipe for Oyster Pie from a popular food magazine close to the Thanksgiving/Christmas holidays and made it for several years. Somehow I lost the recipe. I miss it, and so many of my family and friends are asking why I don't make this again. I tried contacting several magazines, but they don't keep files of recipes from the late '70s or early '80s. I have also tried several Web sources, with no results. The recipe called for a piecrust made with wheat germ and other ingredients and the filling, of course, had oysters, and I started to include spinach. If anyone out there has that recipe, could you please share it?'' - Ileana Jowell, metro Atlanta And here's another stroll down memory lane: Cherry Lewis, of metro Atlanta, would love to re-create the ``Radio Bars'' that she said were sold many years ago at Federal Bakery downtown. ``Back in the late '60s or early '70s, you could walk by and watch them decorating cakes; it was a lot of fun. They only made the Radio Bars in very limited quantity, and they kept them hidden under the counter. You had to know about them to ask for them. They were about 5 inches by 3 inches, a cake base with a white cream filling, almost like buttercream, and then dipped in chocolate. They were sort of shaped like a portable radio.'' Send your questions, tips and Recipe Swap requests or replies to Food Goddess, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, Food Department, 72 Marietta St. N.W., Atlanta, GA 30303 or to foodgoddess(at)ajc.com. (Because of volume, it is not possible _ even for a goddess _ to respond to all inquiries.) Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
