Woody Allen hasn't had a blockbuster movie in . . . well, ever. Yet here's his latest film, ``Hollywood Ending,'' opening Friday and going up against the summer's first real event movie, ``Spider-Man.'' At first glance, Woody vs. Spidey seems like a monstrous mismatch, but look again and you'll see that the nebbishy director and the spandex-clad superhero have more in common than just the same release date for their new movies: TRUE IDENTITY Spider-Man: Peter Parker, a nerdy high-school student Woodman: Allen Konigsberg, a nerdy writer-director-actor-comedian-musician PLAYED BY ... Spider-Man: Tobey Maguire, a twentysomething actor with a knack for portraying neurotic intellectuals Woodman: Woody Allen, a sixtysomething neurotic intellectual with a knack for dating twentysomethings THE BACKSTORY Spider-Man: After Parker is bitten by a genetically altered (or radioactive, depending on the source) spider, he develops unusual spiderlike powers Woodman: After Allen (in the guise of Al Waxman) compromises his values by making a Hollywood movie, he develops unusual psychosomatic blindness LOCATION, LOCATION, LOCATION Spider-Man: Web-crawls his way through Manhattan, the Woodman's favorite place Woodman: Visits Los Angeles, a place he finds crawling with people more repulsive than any spider SIGNIFICANT OTHER Spider-Man: Mary Jane Watson (Kirsten Dunst), an aspiring actress who grew up in a dysfunctional family Woodman: Soon-Yi Previn, daughter of an actress, who grew up in a dysfunctional family ARCHENEMY Spider-Man: The Green Goblin, a diabolical genius Woodman: Mia Farrow, who gave birth to a diabolical child in ``Rosemary's Baby'' BIGGEST FEAR Spider-Man: The death of a loved one _ namely Mary Jane or his Aunt May Woodman: The death of a loved one _ namely himself MOST HEROIC MOMENT Spider-Man: Rescuing Mary Jane ``and'' a bunch of kids Woodman: Rescuing co-star Ta Leoni from the scrap heap of two failed TV series QUOTE Spider-Man: ``With great power comes great responsibility'' (actually from his Uncle Ben, but Spidey repeats it a lot) Woodman: ``I don't want to achieve immortality through my work, I want to achieve it by not dying.'' WORKOUT REGIMEN Spider-Man: Doesn't need one, although Maguire trained hard to get his buff bod Woodman: Doesn't have one, although he watches sports and drinks beer to maintain his soft bod UNUSUAL HOBBY Spider-Man: Swings from tall buildings Woodman: Swings in a jazz band UNUSUAL FASHION SENSE Spider-Man: Wears skin-tight, red-and-blue spider suit with crisscrossing web design Woodman: Dressed as a ... um, sperm cell in ``Everything You Always Wanted To Know About Sex'' BACK TO NATURE Spider-Man: Maguire played the voice of a beagle in ``Cats and Dogs.'' Woodman: Played the voice of an ant in ``Antz.'' PAST ASSOCIATIONS Spider-Man: Maguire appeared in Woody Allen's ``Deconstructing Harry'' Woodman: In ``Annie Hall,'' Allen destroys ``a spider ... the size of a Buick'' .MDRV/.MDNM/ (Visit the Star-Telegram's online services on the World Wide Web: www.star-telegram.com) nn 
