The Islanders' delightful turnaround season finally ended Tuesday night in a 4-2 loss to the Maple Leafs in Game 7 of their opening-round playoff series. The players were crestfallen that they were eliminated from the playoffs since _ audacious as it may seem for a team that finished with the worst record in the NHL last year _ they were in this to win the Stanley Cup. ``We all felt we'd be here,'' Dave Scatchard, the Islanders' emotional center, said of the team having reached the postseason. ``We thought we'd go farther than this, actually. It's all kind of a shock to our systems right now.'' From the very beginning, since they gathered quietly for training camp on Sept. 11 in Lake Placid, Islanders coach Peter Laviolette had stressed to his team that its goal should be to win the championship. They never stopped believing. The players all felt they could win, even at the end. Toronto answered an early goal by Alexei Yashin with three unanswered goals against Islanders goaltender Chris Osgood, but then Kip Miller scored his fourth playoff goal 4 minutes 23 seconds into the third period to trim the deficit to 3-2. ``That's what our team is made of, and that's what we've done all year long,'' Laviolette said. The Islanders played risk-free the rest of the way, but could not beat Toronto goaltender Curtis Joseph again. The Maple Leafs won at home for the fourth time in this series and will open a second-round series at home Thursday against Ottawa. ``I thought we had plenty _ plenty _ of opportunities in the third period, and they just didn't go in,'' Laviolette said. The Islanders, without Michael Peca, Kenny Jonsson and Brad Isbister again Tuesday night, get some rest. The Maple Leafs will enter the next round in a lot worse shape than they were entering this series, which was filled with injuries to top players, fights, suspensions, sniping, criticism of the officials _ and a good hockey game once in a while. ``It would have been tough on us, too,'' Osgood said when asked what it would have been like to advance. ``We still would have wanted to be there, though.'' The Islanders never stopped trying, even though it looked as if they were certain to lose. Their best opportunity to tie the game came with seven minutes left in the game and the Islanders on the power play. Because Toronto forward Shayne Corson had been suspended for Tuesday night's game, Yashin was finally free of the shadow that has followed him for 12 days. He had the puck on his stick and Joseph crouched in front of him, alone and vulnerable. Yashin loaded up and fired, high and to Joseph's right. It was exactly the shot Yashin wanted. Joseph was not brilliant in this series, but he was quick enough to flick out his blocker and tip Yashin's shot away from the goal and to preserve the one-goal lead. Joseph stopped 31 of 33 shots Tuesday night, including four of the five taken by Yashin. ``It seems like we did everything right,'' Yashin said, ``but it didn't go through.'' The Islanders were exactly where they wanted to be midway through the first period, too. They had a 1-0 lead on a power-play goal by Yashin at 3:41. The Islanders came into Tuesday night's game leading all NHL playoff teams with 10 goals in 34 power-play attempts, and they easily scored another. With Paul Healey serving a roughing penalty, the Islanders worked the puck around the perimeter in the Toronto zone. Roman Hamrlik slid a pass to Adrian Aucoin at the point, and he found Yashin all alone in the low slot. Yashin whipped a shot past Joseph for his third goal in four games. ``I thought Alexei Yashin was our best player in the playoffs,'' Laviolette said. The Islanders killed a penalty, but the Maple Leafs started picking up the puck in the neutral zone and pushing it at the Islanders' defense. Tie Domi, not exactly known for his puckhandling skills, found Gary Roberts with a nice drop pass around Islanders wing Mariusz Czerkawski. Roberts, chased in vain by Hamrlik, skated in alone on Osgood and scored his second playoff goal at 13:27. Roberts also bowled over Osgood on the scoring play, and Osgood stayed down for a while. Osgood said later that Roberts had inadvertently kneed him after he shot the puck. But he continued. ``It hurt,'' Osgood said, ``but when you're playing in a game like this, you just play.'' The Maple Leafs outshot the Islanders over the last 12 minutes of the first period, 10-4, and clearly had the momentum after Roberts' goal. Toronto took the lead at 2:37 of the second period on a goal by Alexander Mogilny, who has been fighting the flu for the past week. Toronto's third goal was set up by a costly Islanders' turnover. Claude Lapointe caught up to the puck near the Islanders' blue line and tried to bank it off the boards back to Jason Blake. But the puck caromed off Blake and Travis Green swept it in and beat Osgood high with 6:12 left in the second period. ``We took too many penalties,'' Scatchard said. ``We took too much momentum away from ourselves.'' The fans spent the rest of the period serenading Osgood and chiding Steve Webb, the Islanders' tough guy. They started too early. The Islanders swarmed around Joseph in the last 10 minutes. ``Wish we could have brought that in the first period,'' Webb said. The loss stung so much that the Islanders did not want to reflect on their overwhelmingly successful season. Peca, out for about six months with a torn knee ligament, acknowledged that the Islanders had taken a step this year when he said, ``Now, coming into training camp next year, trust is not something we'll have to discover. It's already in place.'' He was looking ahead. He was one of the only ones. ``We didn't plan on this,'' Scatchard said. ``I don't know how I'm feeling right now. I'm pretty devastated.'' 
