``American Son'' desperately wants to be an insider's tale, the real deal on superhunk John F. Kennedy Jr. Unfortunately, author Richard Blow seems to have confused proximity with revelation. Blow, one of the first editors on board at George magazine, laudably concedes up front that he had primarily a professional relationship with Kennedy. ``I wasn't his best friend or favorite employee,'' Blow writes. ``John did not confess to me his darkest secrets or most painful revelations.'' The reason he wrote the book anyway, he says, was that he wanted to show the world the more complex John he got to know during the four years they worked together. So Blow takes us to editorial meetings with John, relates arguments he had with John about stories and occasionally lets us tag along on work-related social outings with John. He reports overheard phone conversations (John yelling at wife Carolyn Bessette Kennedy), John's dinner-party behavior and the text of John's thank-you note for the wedding gift Blow sent him. We learn that John once lent Blow a tie, that Carolyn gave him relationship advice, that John's loft fridge was crammed with fruits and vegetables. Yet these quotidian details never add up to anything approaching insight. (Which must be some relief to the multitude of Blow's former George co-workers who have blasted the book.) What's worse, Blow seeks to fill the vacuum by adding his own melodramatic interpretations of events. At one point, Blow and a colleague walk into John's office to find him watching a videotape of his father speaking: ``John watched with a rapt expression, as if he were trying to absorb every word his father was saying.'' At the Vanity Fair party after the White House Correspondents Dinner, Blow catches John and Carolyn smiling at each other: ``His worries momentarily forgotten, he appeared optimistic and carefree.'' After John has a tete-a-tete with political widow Mary Bono, ``I could tell from his voice that John liked Bono.'' Blow must have spent an awful lot of time watching John for all these ``recollections'' to register in such detail. And indeed, although he is quick to deride others' anxiousness to have their moment with the golden boy, it is Blow who comes across as starstruck. Consider his description of John helping him with his tie: ``Then, his strong hands working the material expertly but gently, he slid the knot up so that it was snug in the center of my shirt collar.'' Actually, if anything, ``Son'' tells us more about the building of a magazine than about the boy Americans met as as a toddler saluting his father's casket. We see how George struggled to find financial backers and advertisers, learn of John's sensitivity to philandering politicians (interpreted by Blow as a sign of loyalty to his father) and hear about infighting among the staff. But if it's the true complexities behind JFK Jr. that you're looking for, look elsewhere. Blow this one off. Sharyn Wizda Vane writes for the Austin American-Statesman. E-mail: svane(at)statesman.com Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
