Enthusiasm for bold, arching fountains of ornamental grasses swept across the United States a dozen years ago and blew right past me. When the gardening world mustered up an effusive new vocabulary around these powerful plants, I learned how to pronounce Calamagrostis acutiflora (ka-la-ma-GRAHS-tiss acute-a-FLOOR-a) all in one breath, but I never really got excited about plants the size _ and with something of the exotic character _ of juvenile elephants. Then I discovered the little grasses, frizzy, friendly buns and tufts of feathery foliage that are altogether easy to love. These charming little grasses (sedges, some of them) are measured in inches, not by the cubic yard. They look like insane toupees, wild hairpieces for bare spots among the hellebores and the hostas. They're too small to be dramatic, but just big enough to make a quiet splash. Unlike children, little grasses do not outgrow their charms. A nice little grass stays that way. Although we live more or less on the edge of the prairie in Kansas City, and ornamental grasses are regarded in some gardening circles as particularly fitting here, my husband and I did not succumb until I came home one day with a small Carex buchananii, a leatherleaf sedge, which I understood would do well in shade. We live in the dappled light under quite a number of large deciduous trees, and this wispy, ever-brown little sedge, which always appears to have died last month, immediately took hold in one of our shadiest beds, between a colony of hardy begonias and a sprawling wood aster. Here it gushed and sparkled amid the larger leaves of its neighbors like a tiny geyser. It stands about 12 inches high and won't get much taller. It looked very beautiful in fall: the thin, tapering foliage, gracefully curled at the ends, shimmering between the pink begonia flowers and the twinkling stars of the aster, seemed to borrow a touch of color from each. The aster and begonia disappeared after a few frosts, leaving the carex to make crazy shadows on the snow. One little grass leads easily to another, I have found.. At a plant sale, I found myself stalled next to a nursery flat full of fine little frosty curls sedges, Carex albula, with its coquettish silvery green tresses. A gardening friend and I stood stroking the Carexes, teasing them into top knots and ponytails like a couple of mad hairdressers. The Carexes are a genus of almost 1,000 species, from all over the world. Many of them thrive in shade and should be perfectly hardy in my Zone 6 garden. I find they make surprisingly easy and attractive companions for the plants I already hold dear. These little sedges, and other small ornamental grasses, also look pleasantly eccentric in pots, and are quite distinguished in troughs with alpine plants and dwarf conifers and such. They appear delicate, but they are not fragile. I like to run my fingers through the long Carex foliage. Fescues, which grow in fuzzy clumps, I am more inclined to pat on the head. The dozen or so varieties of Festuca glauca, the blue fescue, are handsome little plants, up to about 12 inches tall, with fine, misty blue-green foliage that looks like a startled mop of hair standing on end. These are Mediterranean grasses, native to southern France, and they do very well at the front of a sunny flower bed. One of my neighbors grows the stout Elijah Blue in a bed on a corner of her property, with a couple of peonies and some low, dour junipers. She planted lamb's ear in front; a hardy geranium with pink or blue flowers would look a little more lively, but it's not my garden. If I had enough sun for fescues, I'd choose the smallest one, Daumling, also known as Tom Thumb, which grows to only four inches high. Another neighbor grows a wide band of ribbon grass (Phalaris arundinacea), sometimes known as gardener's garters, along one side of her house. She must have the short variety, Woods Dwarf, because the grass stands only about a foot high. The stark white foliage, with streaks of green, splashes up against the rough-cut limestone foundations of her house like waves breaking against a seawall. A vigorous group of dusty pink Sedum Autumn Joy to one side softens the effect. Ribbon grass was popular with the Victorians, and it remains vigorous; one healthy clump guarantees a supply for generations of gardeners: it is easy to divide. I have experimented with the pennisetums, warm-season annual and perennial grasses with fuzzy fox-tail blooms that appear in summer or early fall. They are grown more for their startling iridescent inflorescences than for their foliage, although some have good fall color; purple-leaf varieties have also caught on. Two little pennisetums, P. alopecuroides Little Bunny and the even smaller Little Honey are the cutest; they grow to 18 and 12 inches tall, respectively. In late summer, they are simply covered with blooms that look like hairy caterpillars. Give them sun. So far I have just been planting my little grasses here and there in the garden, as I might place candles around the living room _ wherever a touch of illumination seems called for. It is not really the prairie style. ``I felt the grass was the country, as the water is the sea,'' Willa Cather wrote of the Nebraska prairie in ``My Antonia,'' in 1918. ``And there was so much motion in it,'' she said, ``the whole country seemed, somehow, to be running.'' Big, bold grasses may race where they will across the American landscape, but in the shelter of my own backyard, shy and mysterious little grasses are finding comfortable places for themselves in the garden beds, like cats. Two good sources for little grasses are Earthly Pursuits, 2901 Kuntz Road, Windsor Mill, Md. 21244, (410) 496-5894, www.earthlypursuits.com, catalog $3; and Limerock Ornamental Grasses, 70 Sawmill Road, Port Matilda, Pa. 16870, (814) 692-2272, www.limerockgrasses.com, catalog $4. 
