In American athletes' fight to keep the nation's greatest prizes out of foreign hands, the last man standing might be a horse. The Kentucky Derby is one of the dwindling number of major U.S. sports events that haven't been won in recent years by a Russian with a tennis racket, a South African with a shaky putter, a Colombian with a lead foot or a South Korean relief pitcher with a curveball -- outdueling a Panamanian with a forkball. Is the Derby, that bastion of Americana, ready for a winner owned and trained by people from England, Ireland or Dubai? We might find out Saturday, when the race is run for the 128th time at Churchill Downs. Johannesburg, the 2001 Breeders' Cup Juvenile winner, returns from Ireland and is the 6-1 fourth choice on the Derby morning line released Wednesday. Castle Gandolfo is here from England. Essence of Dubai is here from the United Arab Emirates sheikdom for which he is named. ``I think we're going to have to accept that racing is international,'' said D. Wayne Lukas, the trainer of four Derby winners. ``If they (foreigners) ever win one, it's really going to open up the floodgates.'' America's major thoroughbred races increasingly have been won by European and Arab horsemen. Last fall, three of the eight Breeders' Cup championship race winners in New York were won by horses from overseas. But the Derby has continued to be dominated by horses whose handlers followed the traditional pattern of prep races in California, Florida, New York and Kentucky. Since Canonero II came from Venezuela to score a storied upset in 1971, 14 horses who ran outside North America as 3-year-olds have tried the 1\-mile race and the only one to finish better than sixth has been 1986 runner-up Bold Arrangement from England. In the 1990s, foreign participation became more common, beginning when 2-year-old champion Arazi came back from the grassy training courses of France and ran eighth as a heavy favorite in the Derby. When Dubai's Sheik Mohammed al Maktoum and Sheik Maktoum al Maktoum began shipping horses to the Derby in 1998, intent on winning the world's most famous four-footed race, they added an element of mystery that continues in the form of Essence of Dubai. It's safe to say that Essence of Dubai, Johannesburg and Castle Gandolfo form the strongest foreign contingent to try the Derby. Michael Tabor's Johannesburg, the 2001 2-year-old champion of North America based on one victory here, and Sue Magnier's Castle Gandolfo, a less-decorated stakes winner in England, both are trained by Ireland's respected Aidan O'Brien. Essence of Dubai, the Norfolk Stakes winner at Santa Anita in October, went to Dubai following a bad performance in the Breeders' Cup Juvenile and won a pair of races there that included one at the Derby distance of 1\ miles. Beyond that, it's hard to say anything with much certainty. ``Hard to tell,'' Lukas, who has Lexington Stakes winner Private Citizen in the Derby, said of the international trio. ``That's the X factor here, big time. We're getting a little bit of a line on the one from Dubai. But the other two, we're not going to know until they set foot on the track what they look like, what their energy level is or how they shipped.'' U.S. handicappers still are learning to measure the talent and fitness of horses who left their Kentucky homes as high-priced yearlings to train and compete in countries where races are commonly run on strips of turf or sand. The task is made harder by the fact trainers such as O'Brien and Dubai's Saeed bin Suroor tend to put their young horses to the test in races less often than their American counterparts. ``I think we're still under the impression -- and it may be a mistaken impression -- that the American way to get a horse ready for the Derby is the only way,'' said Randy Moss, a turf writer and television commentator who is one of the team of handicappers who calculate the Daily Racing Form's Beyer speed figures. The sheiks' four Derby runners before this have finished remarkably close to the positions the public betting has predicted. Worldly Manner (eighth in the betting at 14-1) finished seventh in 1999, China Visit and Curule (jointly 11th at 23-1) finished sixth and seventh in 2000, and Express Tour (seventh at 18-1) finished eighth in 2001. Essence of Dubai is the sixth choice on the morning line at 15-1. Andy Beyer, the speed-figures guru, said that partly because Essence of Dubai defeated a California-based horse named Total Impact in the UAE Derby, his team was able to estimate that the colt earned a rating (103) that compares favorably with the Kentucky Derby contenders. That lends some credence to bin Suroor's statement by telephone with U.S. reporters last week: ``This horse, I think, has a better chance than what we brought before.'' Essence of Dubai arrived in Louisville the week before last. The Ireland-based horses didn't get to Kentucky until Tuesday -- and are forced to stay in Lexington until Derby day because of the lack of quarantine facilities at Churchill Downs. American jockeys Gary Stevens and Jerry Bailey, named Wednesday to ride Johannesburg and Castle Gandolfo, probably won't touch their mounts until they reach the saddling paddock. ``I think the people in the United States are going to have to step up a little bit if they're going to compete on an international basis with the Irish and the Arabs,'' said Shug McGaughey, who is training Saarland for the Derby. ``They've got a lot of the best mares in the world, a lot of the best stallions in the world, and they're going to these (U.S.) sales and influxing a lot of great pedigrees into what they've already got. ``They're going to get it (supremacy). They've pretty much got it right now, as far as I can see.'' What they don't have is the Derby -- yet. 
