Four days a week, Deacon Kenneth Radcliffe walks around the housing areas of the Vernon C. Bain Center in the Bronx with a clear plastic backpack full of copies of the New Testament slung over his shoulder. Every so often he stops, gives an inmate a Bible, asks how he is doing and tells him about Catholic hour. ``I got soul food,'' Radliffe says. ``I got food for your soul.'' For more than a decade, Radcliffe has been ministering to inmates, the last three years at Bain, the borough's 800-bed floating correctional facility docked off Hunts Point in the East River. Radcliffe is one of 14 Catholic chaplains employed by the New York City Department of Correction. Representatives from the Muslim, Jewish and Protestant faiths also work in the city's jails. ``It's important that you have somebody in there on a regular basis from a religious perspective,'' Kenneth Hoffarth, director of the Office of Criminal Justice for the Archdiocese of New York, who recruits, trains and recommends Catholic chaplains for the correction department. ``Most of the people in city prisons are unsentenced. They have not been convicted of a crime yet. So they, as with any other inmate, should be afforded their religious practices.'' Either one on one or in a group setting, Radcliffe offers spiritual counseling and comfort and lends an ear to men coping with separation from family and friends. He also tries to get the men to come to grips with why they were locked up in the first place. Radcliffe, 67, conducts weekly Catholic hours, one in Spanish and one in English, in which he instructs the inmates about their faith through doctrine, the Gospel and preparation for the sacraments. In his 12 years as a correction chaplain, Radcliffe estimates, he has interacted with thousands of men, the majority involved in drug-related cases. ``The whole idea of the spiritual and religious dimension is to tell them to come back home, come back to the church,'' he said. ``We love you, even though you may be a knucklehead and done all that stinking behavior, we love you, God loves you, Jesus loves you. That's my message.'' Some of the men at the Bain center are waiting to go to trial or awaiting transfers to upstate prisons. The average stay is a few days to a couple of months. But some are like Edgar, 31, who has been incarcerated for 16 months. The correction department does not permit the use of inmates' last names. ``The deacon, he approaches everybody in a very nonjudgmental way,'' said Edgar, who is facing drug charges. ``Whatever you've done, as long as you decide to change yourself, that's what's most important. There are people that have done bad things in life. It doesn't mean they're bad people, and a lot of times a lot of people just need to hear that.'' For Noel, a recovering drug addict, the fact that Radcliffe listens to everything he has to say proves that he cares and wants to help. ``I can't talk to anyone here,'' Noel said, who has been detained for 14 months on a drug charge. ``I can't talk to any other inmate. Him, I look up to and because I know he's there, he'll listen to whatever I have to say and give me advice. He's not going to direct me in the wrong direction.'' Radcliffe refers many inmates to the center's substance abuse intervention division. ``Sometimes the men don't feel comfortable admitting their drug problems to us,'' said Winifred Gourdine, an addiction treatment counselor. ``But when they attend his church services, they will talk to him. He makes them realize that this is the help that you need.'' Radcliffe's work isn't over when he leaves the Bain center. He serves as a deacon at Resurrection Roman Catholic Church in Hamilton Heights, advocates for the repeal of harsh drug laws and works part time at Project Create Inc., an outpatient drug treatment clinic in Harlem. ``It's my calling,'' he said. ``I love it and I enjoy doing what I do because of the impact.'' Small in stature, with a white beard and glasses, Radcliffe wears all black and a Jerusalem cross around his cleric's collar. He has been a deacon for 25 years, but says he has been a spiritual person most of his life. ``I liked the prayers, the rituals, the communion,'' he said. ``I was the kid who went to Mass every day. The guys and girls used to call me 'holy boy.''' After Catholic school and a stint in the Army, Radcliffe considered the priesthood and applied to several seminaries in 1960. He also had a passion for the arts, and pursued a successful career as a commercial artist and graphic designer. But even with a wife and two daughters, Radcliffe felt that something was missing in his life. Then his wife, Shirley, saw a newspaper announcement about the Brooklyn diocese's permanent deacon program. ``The minute I made the decision to do that, it was like that gnawing was no longer there,'' said Radcliffe, who attended evening classes for four years to become a deacon. ``It was the moment of truth for me. The thirst was finally being quenched, The hunger was finally being satisfied.'' ``This is what I am until the day I die,'' he added. ``My ministry doesn't end.'' (EDITORS: There is no charge for use of this story, but please send a tearsheet to Professor Stephen D. Isaacs, Columbia News Service, Graduate School of Journalism, Columbia University, 2950 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10027.) 
