EDS: Two color slides accompany this story, not three, as was stated in the original transmission of this story. (ATTENTION EDITORS: As part of a FREE THREE-MONTH TRIAL, The New York Times Syndicate is offering articles from ``National Geographic Today,'' the National Geographic Channel's daily news journal. Reporting on nature, science and exploration in the National Geographic Society tradition, ``National Geographic Today'' stories are available on this wire Wednesdays and Fridays during this test period. IF YOU PUBLISH A STORY, PLEASE LET US KNOW BY E-MAILING natgeo(at)nytimes.com.) (ART NOTE: Two color images are available free of charge. One image shows an intact Pacific Tree frog (Hyla regilla) with deformities. The second image shows the National Geographic Channel logo. The images are available electronically by calling The New York Times Syndicate's Graphics Desk at 212-499-3339.) By BIJAL P. TRIVEDI c.2002 National Geographic Channel National Geographic Channel (Distributed by New York Times Special Features) Why frogs suddenly have started sprouting legs out of their mouths or growing extra limbs has confounded scientists for over a decade, but now a researcher only a few years out of college believes he has pinpointed the culprit _ a parasitic flatworm no bigger than a period. ``Our study supports the hypothesis that trematode infection is a major cause of limb malformations in natural amphibian populations,'' Pieter Johnson, 25, writes in the latest issue of Ecological Monographs, ``Simply stated, the greater the amphibian population's infection, the higher the frequency and severity of limb malformations.'' Parasites have been among the suspects all along, but Johnson and colleagues combined laboratory experiments with extensive fieldwork in the western United States to establish the link. Although frog deformities have been documented in 44 states, the interdisciplinary team believes this is the first large-scale field survey in the United States of a phenomenon that may be threatening frog survival and even the ecosystem. Johnson, now a University of Wisconsin doctoral student, began his investigations as an honor's thesis at Stanford University, graduating in 1998. He expanded his research at Claremont McKenna College and within the year was lead author of a paper published in Science. Under laboratory conditions, 85 percent of the tadpoles exposed to parasites grew up deformed, but was the Ribeiroia ondatrae flatworm also attacking amphibians in the wild? The researchers, including Kevin B. Lunde, an animal physiologist and one of Johnson's childhood friends, took to the field to find out. For five months in 1999, they studied over 12,000 frogs, toads and salamanders at 101 sites in California, Idaho, Montana, Oregon and Washington. The diversity of the habitats that supported the tapeworm surprised them most. They found the parasite in mountain lakes, drainage canals, cattle ponds, reservoirs and even a small, artificial pond less than a year old. ``At some of these sites, it was difficult to find a normal frog anywhere,'' Johnson says. ``At every affected site we found the parasite. The more parasites were inside the frog, the more severe the deformities.'' Deformities, affecting 11 amphibian species, ranged from well-developed extra hind legs to twisted masses of tissue and bone, but more than frog freaks causes scientific concern. Scientists regard frogs as ultra-sensitive indicators of environmental change. Though frog and flatworm have both been around for millions of years, the sudden burst of malformations suggests to Johnson an environment out of balance. ``Diseases are a symptom of a degraded environment,'' he says. In addition to parasites, pollution, pesticides, deforestation, ultra-violet rays and the loss of wetlands have been suggested as why the ancient and amazingly adaptable frog is now threatened. Michael Lannoo, a Ball State University biologist and U.S. coordinator of an international task force established in 1991 to investigate declining amphibian populations, agrees that parasites are part of the answer. He hasn't ruled out other possibilities, however. ``It is unambiguous that Rubeiroia cause malformations,'' he says, but he has found deformed frogs where the parasite doesn't exist. ``There has to be something else going on.'' Johnson's group also considered other possibilities. At each site, they measured pesticide concentrations but found no evidence that chemicals caused malformations. ``At sites with high levels of pesticides, there were no deformed frogs. In fact, there were just no frogs at all,'' Johnson says. Yet more than 75 percent of the sites with abnormal amphibians were near nutrient-rich ponds, built for either cattle or irrigation. Johnson suspects that chemical fertilizers and manure encourage algae, providing more food for aquatic snails, traditional hosts during the parasite's reproductive cycle. Johnson doesn't believe parasite infestation in amphibians is new, but he does see the hand of man at work. He and Lunde suggest that ``dramatic changes'' in aquatic ecosystems, including man-made ponds and disappearing wetlands, may encourage denser snail populations in the artificial ponds where amphibians seek refuge. Their research will be included in a book on frog conservation that Dr. Lannoo is editing for the University of California Press. ``One universal truth is that wetlands with frog malformations have been altered by humans somehow and are not functioning normally,'' Lannoo says. ``These areas are filters of rainwater and it would be a mistake to assume that none of this will affect humans. For more information, visit www.nationalgeographic.com/channel, or AOL Keyword: NatGeoChannel. 
