The Hugo Chavez who emerged from prison April 15 is quite different from the man who was inaugurated Venezuela's president in 1999. Back in office after being ousted only three days earlier by an attempted military coup, President Chavez, 47, has had to face a greater reality: he now knows what he should not do in order to achieve what he wants to do. When he took office in February 1999, Lt. Col. Hugo Chavez Frias hadn't the faintest notion how complex and cunning foreign interests could be. It simply seemed to him that Venezuela and he were inseparably bonded, protected by the noble shadow of Simon Bolivar, and that from that historical firmament he could do whatever he pleased. In August that year, when I talked with him at Miraflores Palace, his ingenuousness hadn't changed. At the time he was replacing the efficient managers of Venezuela Petroleum _ the state-run oil giant that generates $54 billion in annual revenues and upon which nearly all of Venezuela's economy depends _ by blindly loyal bureaucrats. He was obsessed with pushing forward his political agenda, which included reducing awful poverty, eradicating corruption and reducing the power of Venezuela's traditional political parties. He also wanted to resuscitate Bolivar's unfulfilled dream of a ``Greater Colombia'' through a federation of nations that included Panama, Ecuador, Peru and Bolivia, as well as Colombia and Venezuela. Chavez swiftly took steps in all those directions, convened an assembly to reform the Constitution, and managed to snub the United States by strengthening ties with Iraq's Saddam Hussein and Libya's Moammar Gadhafi, and sending a letter of solidarity to the jailed terrorist Illich ``The Jackal'' Ramirez Sanchez. Months later, he sold oil to Cuba on privileged terms, which only served to further aggravate America's growing mistrust. On the domestic front, Chavez also acted irresponsibly and autocratically. To this day, nobody knows for sure what happened to the huge revenues that flooded Venezuela when oil prices tripled. Numbers only show that the country's economy has barely grown in the last four years. From 1998, the gross domestic product has increased a mere 6.3 percent which, taking into account population growth, shows that Venezuelans are worse off today. Inflation predicted for 2002 is over 35 percent, and the flight of capital abroad is compounded by soaring interest on the public debt. Seventy five percent of Venezuelans remains poor, and unemployment in 2001 was 21.4 percent with no improvement in sight. Education is also going through a bad spell: illiteracy is more that 9 percent, one of the continent's highest. And though Chavez admires Fidel Castro _ at least he did until a month ago _ he resembles him only in gesture not in achievement. The naive and boyish man I met in Miraflores three years ago revealed himself to be clumsy as well as foolish. He still could not grasp that to rule a country with huge oil reserves, and the world's fourth in oil production, requires a fiendish strategy to deal with developed nations' maneuvers to impose their will, either out of need or greed. But after his second time in jail (the first was 1992-4 when he was imprisoned for leading a military rebellion against then-President Carlos Andres Perez) he appears a transformed man. His troubles that began a few days earlier with the uncontainable popular revolt demanding his resignation and culminating in a military coup April 12 and businessman Pedro Carmona Estanga taking over power, have awakened in him the defensive instincts in short supply before. His dictatorial rhetoric has changed in tone _ it is now more conciliatory. His cozy relationship with Fidel Castro has cooled, or so it seems: during the days Chavez was in disgrace, Castro tried to find him a haven in Spain or another European country _ he clearly didn't want him in Cuba. So, the lesson Chavez has learned best is not about treason or isolation. What he knows now is there are powers that are stronger, swifter and with fewer scruples than his. He assumed the military answered to him blindly. But now it's clear only a third is loyal to him, another third remains hostile, and the last third is waiting to see what happens. Since his government has constitutional legitimacy _ and there is an inter-American pact to support its institutions _ he was confident regional repudiation of the insurgents would be unanimous. Instead, he was astonished to discover that the United States and Spain actually sympathized with Carmona's fleeting government. He believed his efficient intelligence apparatus would provide protection from any assault on his authority, but he never expected that help and encouragement for his opponents would come from the United States. However, there is not as much proof to support this as there was about the CIA's intervention in Guatemala 50 years ago or in Salvador Allende's Chile in the 1970s. But it's public knowledge Carmona and some military commanders were in communication with U.S. State Department officials before the coup. White House spokesman Ari Fleischer's comments that Chavez himself was responsible for the crisis that brought him down, can almost be read as acknowledgment of the fact. Back at his office at Miraflores, the eccentric president of Venezuela has changed. But his mild calls for unity on April 15 and his acceptance of an independent council to investigate the 15 fatalities during the four-day demonstrations, seem more like the groans of a tiger suffering indigestion from an excess of power. Time will tell whether his authoritarian tendencies are less persistent than the warnings of reality. If Chavez is to remember history's lessons, he could remain in office till the end of his term, avoiding mistakes of the past, but possibly committing heaven knows what new ones. If anything worse than Chavez could befall Venezuela it is the insolence and clumsiness of the coup that tried to overthrow him. The Venezuelan president is a man of the left, a demagogue and incompetent, but those who succeeded him belong to an arrogant and despotic elite, whose first acts seemed awfully like fascism. Chavez has the advantage of an unquestionable legitimacy, while his adversaries behaved with a suspicious contempt for Venezuela's institutions and civil rights. The comparison between one government and the other clearly did not favor the rebels, and now Venezuela has missed the opportunity for an orderly transition from the all-powerful and arbitrary rule of its constitutional president to a more rational, predictable and orderly government, respectful of its laws. The military coup of April 12 had an opposite effect to what it sought: it has confirmed Chavez in office and has reinforced his leadership. Millions of Venezuelans will continue to complain about their president, perhaps rightly so, but now they know every ill, though intolerable, can always be supplanted by something even worse. (Tomas Eloy Martinez is the author of ``The Peron Novel'' and ``Santa Evita.'' He is chairman of the Latin American studies department at Rutgers University and travels widely as an editor and journalist.) NONSUBSCRIBERS: To publish a ``separate-buy'' feature article, it must be purchased. Please contact one of these sales representatives: --U.S. and Canada: DEBRA WEYDERT in New Jersey at 1-732-390-4480; fax, 732-390-4697. --Europe and Asia: CLAIRE SAINT-ANDRE in Paris at 53-05-76-50; fax, 47-42-80-44 or 47-42-18-81; telex, 282-942. 
