The ABA, the ``other'' professional basketball league, went head-to-head with the NBA for nine seasons beginning in 1967 and left its mark in a relatively short period of time. Ultimately, the ABA gave the NBA four new teams (Denver, Indiana, New Jersey and San Antonio), the 3-point shot and flair from players such as Dr. J (Julius Erving) and the Iceman (George Gervin). The ABA, which played its games with a funky red-white-and-blue ball, was high on style, high-scoring and fast-paced, not at all unlike the way the Mavs like to play. After all, isn't the 3-point shot one of Dallas' favorite toys? ``They're playing that ABA flavor where they push it up and shoot a lot of 3's,'' said Gervin, a Hall of Famer who played with the Spurs in both the ABA and the NBA. ``They're running and gunning, playing that ABA style. That's fun basketball, and I really feel that's the history of the ABA, up-tempo basketball.'' Nash, who was born in Canada, doesn't know much about the renegade ABA. In fact, four players on Dallas' 12-man playoff roster weren't even born when the ABA folded in 1976. ``I was too young to know much about it,'' said Nash, who was 2 when the league folded, ``so I really can't say how we compare to those teams.'' With their high-scoring ways, the Mavs are trying to buck a near-15-year trend of winning with defense in the playoffs, a style made popular by the thuggish Detroit Pistons, who won back-to-back NBA titles in 1989 and 1990. At the February trade deadline, the Mavs added two scorers _ Nick Van Exel and Raef LaFrentz _ to an already-potent bunch and won a franchise-best 57 games during the regular season. Then, the Mavs swept Minnesota in the first round of the playoffs, cracking the 100-point plateau in all three games and averaging almost 113 points per game. ``It reminds me of the old ABA because it's wide-open, fast-paced and up-and-down,'' said NBC's Bob Costas, who once was the play-by-play voice of the Spirits of St. Louis ABA team. ``But although the 3-pointer was an ABA creation, these modern guys shoot the 3 much more accurately than ABA teams did, including 7-foot guys that hit them with ease.'' In the second round, Dallas faces Sacramento, which had the NBA's best record in the regular season. Dallas led the NBA in scoring this season with 105.2 points per game, and the Kings were second at 104.6. Basketball fans disillusioned by what the NBA has become in the past 10 to 15 years _ a slow-down, physical, isolation game _ likely will watch this series with intrigue. ``The Mavs are what basketball is all about to me,'' Hall of Fame player turned NBC analyst Bill Walton said. ``They play relentlessly, on defense and on offense. They pass the ball, and they have five guys that can score. They've got a Hall of Fame coach and a visionary owner who is determined to bring success to his town, his city. ``They've quickly left the Heat-Knicks theory of winning the game on the final possession in the dust.'' A Mavs-Kings series begs the question: Would the NBA consider rolling out the red-white-and-blue ball for Saturday's opening tip? ``The rules have changed, and it's the best thing that ever happened to the league,'' Mavs coach Don Nelson said. ``It got the isolation game out of there and let us play basketball. We have a better game. It's more fun to play and it's more fun to watch. The scores are higher. You can't control the game like you used to. It's encouraged ball movement, shooting, cutting and all of the things that are good for basketball. ``I sure think \Rit's good for the fans\S. I'm the biggest fan of the NBA in the whole world. There's nobody that enjoys pro basketball more than I, and I will have to admit during those isolation years, the game was boring for me. It's a breath of fresh air to watch teams play now and do the things we're doing.'' The ABA in the Metroplex isn't a new concept. Once upon a time, there was an ABA team in Dallas called the Chaparrals. After an unsuccessful six-season run, which included renaming themselves the Texas Chaparrals and playing several ``home'' games per season in Fort Worth and Lubbock, the team moved to San Antonio and became the Spurs. Though there won't be a ``Bad News'' or ``Goo'' running around the Arco Arena court on Saturday _ just guys named Dirk, Michael, Peja, Vlade and Chris _ there will be an ABA flavor, as Gervin put it, in this series. ``That's our style, and it's Sacramento's style,'' said Mavs assistant coach Rolando Blackman, a member of Pat Riley's Knicks team that reached the NBA Finals in 1994 playing a tight, slowdown, defense-first game. ``Ultimately, it turns out great for the fans. They'll come out and watch a team go up and down the court, see shooters shoot the ball and take it to the basket. From a fan's perspective, it should be a lot of fun for them to see.'' nn 
