Years of hyperinflation have rendered this country's currency so worthless that few people here thought it possible for it to diminish anymore. Then, earlier this month, the woebegone Afghani crashed again, spiraling downward until, at one point, it was worth no more than 1/400th of a cent. So many Afghans were rushing to exchange Afghanis for dollars that the Afghan central bank, now that the country has such a thing, spent more than $1 million of its meager reserves to buy Afghanis and try to stem the currency's collapse. It worked, and now that the frenzy has ebbed, senior government officials here suspect a sinister force: Members of the former Northern Alliance, which did most of the fighting against the Taliban, appear to be unloading huge stores of bank notes they had printed for themselves during their years in the wilderness. So when the warlords of the old Northern Alliance cash in their wads of cash for dollars, they get wealthy and the Afghani takes a plunge. ``Millions of dollars worth of currency were never delivered to the central bank,'' said Anwar Ahadi, an Afghan native who quit his job as a professor at Providence College in Rhode Island to become the governor general of the central bank. ``Certain people stockpiled the money, and now they are taking it out and spending it.'' The recent collapse of Afghanistan's currency, and the skulduggery surrounding it, stands as a measure of the weakness of this country's fledgling government, which finds itself unable to control even the supply of its own money. As the country's leaders begin to construct a new set of national institutions, they are finding that they must first confront the mess left by the old ones. The culprit, according to Ahadi, is the murky relationship between what was the Northern Alliance and a Russian-Swiss company that for years held exclusive rights to print Afghan money. According to officials here, between 1992 and 1996, Appleline Ltd. served as the money printer for the government of Burhanuddin Rabbani, who presided over Afghanistan as it convulsed in a civil war. Then the Taliban entered the capital in September 1996, and Rabbani fled. Even though he was without a capital, Rabbani insisted he was still president, and that his fighters, known as the Northern Alliance, were the country's real government. It wasn't much, but through five years of Taliban rule, the one thing the Northern Alliance retained was control of the country's money. While the Taliban could persuade no one to print much money for their government, the Northern Alliance printed trillions of notes, financing their war against the Taliban and rendering the currency virtually worthless. By his accounting, Appleline printed seven trillion Afghanis for the Northern Alliance, or about $175 million at the current exchange rate, between 1996 and 2001. In the process, the value of the Afghani evaporated. A decade ago, one dollar bought about 1,200 Afghanis. Today, it buys about 37,000. The Afghani is now worth so little that many Afghans carry their Afghani notes around in enormous garbage bags. Ahadi says he is sympathetic to Rabbani's argument. But what made Ahadi really angry, he says, is an apparent last-minute job that Appleline did for the Northern Alliance, just days before the new Afghan government took power. According to Ahadi, Appleline printed $8 million worth of Afghanis for Northern Alliance leaders early last December. Hamid Karzai, the chairman of the interim government, took power Dec. 22. In a recent interview, Ahadi said he summoned an Appleline representative to Kabul and demanded that he explain the company's actions. Ahadi said the Appleline representative confirmed delivery of the $8 million and insisted that it was the last job the company did for the Northern Alliance. ``We don't know where the money went,'' Ahadi said. ``I was so angry I almost yelled at them.'' ((In Switzerland, Appleline said in a statement that it has been supplying currency to the official governments of Afghanistan since 1992, but it would not comment on whether it had printed an $8 million batch last December.)) Rabbani, the former president, confirmed in an interview that many shipments of Afghanis were printed in the final months of the war, but he claimed not to know exactly how much or where they might have gone. ``We had to print money _ it was the only source of revenue we had,'' Rabbani said. Even now, after the panic has subsided, evidence abounds that many new Afghanis recently came into circulation. At the open-air Kabul currency market, traders hawk huge stacks of crisp, new Afghani notes still sealed in clear plastic packages. (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.) The scandal over the printing of the Afghanis is only one of the many headaches facing the new Afghan central bank. During the country's civil war in the 1990s, many warlords ordered up their own currencies, all of them from foreign companies. Three of them, other than the main currency, still circulate widely. All four of the currencies look remarkably similar, distinguishable only by small marks on the faces of the bills. But their values differ markedly, and the routine exchange of money is a often a source of confusion and argument. The only solution, Ahadi says, is to tear them all up and start anew. Ahadi says he plans to introduce a new currency sometime in the next six months. As it happens, rumors of a new Afghan currency have already ignited speculation at the Afghan money market. In recent days, more and more people are showing up at the currency market with wads of Afghani notes, hoping to cash them in before their value falls even more. One of the people who recently came to trade in his notes was Muhammad Isok Saduqi, a businessman recently returned from Pakistan. ``Everyone is dumping their Afghanis,'' he said. 
