Adelphia Communications said Thursday that it was restating its financial statements for the past three years to include on its books over $1 billion in loans that the embattled cable company guaranteed to entities controlled by the family of its chairman, John Rigas. The family used some of those funds to buy Adelphia stock and bonds. Adelphia also said that because it had delayed filing its annual financial report, it had received notices of default on some agreements with lenders and it was in potential default on others. But the company has obtained waivers to enable it to file the report late and still comply with borrowing requirements. The company's shares fell 94 cents on Thursday to close at $6.01. Since March 27, when the company acknowledged that it had loaned $2.3 billion to the Rigas family, its stock has fallen 70 percent. Analysts said they were confused by Adelphia's statement that it had ``tentatively'' concluded that it should add $1.6 billion in debt to its liabilities for 2001, $1.2 billion for 2000 and $700 million for 1999. ``The market is still looking for full disclosure, rather than random facts,'' said Areyh Bourkoff, a bond analyst at UBS Warburg Fixed Income. Investors found Thursday's announcement inconsistent with the company's statement in March that it had lent a total of $2.3 billion to entities controlled by the family. While most of the $2.3 billion went to buy Adelphia securities, the rest was used by partnerships controlled by the Rigas family to acquire cable assets. Several analysts speculated that Adelphia's accountants, Deloitte &AMP; Touche, had told the company that it could keep $700 million in debt on the books of the partnerships because the cable assets they had acquired could support that much debt. The balance of the debt is now going on the books of Adelphia. Oren Cohen, a bond analyst at Merrill Lynch, said he calculated from public filings that entities controlled by the Rigas family had bought roughly $1.2 billion in Adelphia stock between 1995 and the end of last year. Cohen said Thursday that the family or the entities it controls might have borrowed an additional $400 million in December to acquire convertible preferred stock it bought in January 2002, but he said that such a strategy seemed odd. The company did not respond to telephone calls seeking comment. Cohen said he was also puzzled by the fact that the entities that appeared on the bank borrowing facilities _ Highland Video and Highland Prestige of Georgia _ were not the same as Highland 2000, the investment vehicle controlled by the Rigas family that bought Adelphia securities. One institutional shareholder who requested anonymity said he understood that the bank covenants with the Highland groups allowed the groups to use the loans to buy cable systems and for ``general corporate purposes.'' The shareholder speculated that the Highland groups ``lent money to yet another entity, Highland 2000, where they could buy the stock and then show a big receivable at Highland Video and Highland Prestige without raising questions from the banks.'' Cohen said: ``It is clear from the press release that the entity that bought the stock was outside of the borrowing entity, and that raises questions as to why the deal was structured that way. What kind of relationship was it? Was it a loan? Was it a dividend?'' Thursday's news release alluded to the complex arrangement by saying that Adelphia had decided to restate its financial statements to account for loans to entities controlled by the Rigas family that were incurred when other Rigas family-controlled entities bought Adelphia stock. One Wall Street analyst said that adding the liabilities to Adelphia's balance sheet left the company's debt at a reasonable level compared with its cash flow. But he said the company might have to add to its borrowings in the future. ``The bigger issue is that the company will probably use up its $2.5 billion in credit under bank agreements, for cable rebuilds and debt service,'' he said. ``Then they have to raise money in 2003 for similar reasons. They may have to sell cable systems, and the rumor is that they will have to sell their crown jewel: Los Angeles cable systems with 1.2 million subscribers.'' 
