H&AMP;R Block Inc. said Wednesday that a strong finish to the income tax filing season boosted its tax business volume to a record level. As a result, the Kansas City-based diversified financial services provider expects to report earnings June 12 that will be nearer the high end of a previously estimated range of $2.20 to $2.30 per share for the year that ended April 30. Based in part on underlying fundamental strength in its businesses, Block also expects earnings for fiscal 2003, ending next April 30, to increase to a range of $2.60 to $2.75 a share, said Mark A. Ernst, the company's president and chief executive officer. The projected increases represent balanced growth across all the company's business lines, which include mortgage lending and brokerage services, Ernst said. During the 2002 fiscal year, lower interest rates have led to robust growth in Block's mortgage business, but dismal markets have caused some shrinkage in the company's investment services operations, he said. Block earned a record $281.2 million, or $3.04 per fully diluted share, on $3 billion in revenues during the fiscal year that ended April 30. The company split its stock 2 for 1 in August, so the projected fiscal 2002 earnings represent a 45 percent to 50 percent increase from a year ago. Block's tax operations, which typically account for about 65 percent of the company's profits and 55 percent of its revenues, reached several milestones during the filing season that ended April 15, the company said. Among them: - Block tax specialists served a record 18.1 million clients, a 2.7 percent increase. - Tax preparation and related services generated $2 billion in revenues, a 10.5 percent increase. - Block filed 15.4 million electronic returns, a 7.9 percent increase, to a record 85 percent of the returns it processed. - The average fees clients paid for tax work increased 9 percent from a year earlier, to $121.52. Much of the increase occurred because clients generally had more-complicated tax returns this season, Block said. Block's 2.7 percent increase in the number of clients it served this tax season compares with a 1.5 percent increase in all returns that the Internal Revenue Service reported earlier. The company increased its market share by about half the number of additional taxpayers who filed this year, which is a gain the company didn't achieve a year ago, Ernst said. Block officials are still analyzing where the new business came from, but the traditional sources for such gains are taxpayers who give up doing paper returns themselves or who used other tax services before, he said. The IRS reported earlier that Americans filed nearly 117.6 million federal returns during the just-ended tax season, including a record 45.8 million electronically. IRS workers also processed a record 88.5 million returns by the end of the April 15 workweek. 
