On paper, Came Home would appear to have all the credentials to be the next great racehorse. He has been nothing short of remarkable in his short career, winning six of his seven starts. In his three races in 2002, he is undefeated, including an impressive win in the Santa Anita Derby. But in Saturday's 128th running of the Kentucky Derby at Churchill Downs, he likely will be overlooked. At least until the race is over. ``He has everything a horse needs to win the Derby,'' said Came Home's jockey, Chris McCarron, who has two Derby victories on his resume. ``He's got class, talent he's determined. This horse is a fighter.'' Came Home hasn't exactly been the center of attention leading up to this year's Derby. When entries are drawn today for what is expected to be a 20-horse field in Saturday's race, Harlan's Holiday will be the likely favorite. Horses like Buddha and Johannesburg may get more action at the betting windows on race day. Trainers and owners are coming out of the woodwork to get a shot at this year's Run for the Roses because the consensus is this is not a strong group of 3-year-olds. All that despite the fact Came Home has won major stakes on both coasts. Five of his wins have been in stakes company, and the closest a horse has been to him at the finish of those races is two lengths. He was the dominant 3-year-old on the West Coast, usually a strong indicator of a horse's potential. In his only career loss, he finished seventh in last year's Breeders' Cup Juvenile at Belmont, won by Johannesburg. However, Came Home was coming off an injury leading into that race. ``He's got a lot of ability,'' said McCarron, who has been aboard for all seven starts. ``He's got the potential to be something special.'' Still, Came Home has not inspired much confidence in his ability to win on Saturday. The biggest knock on the son of Gone West out of the Clever Trick mare Nice Assay is that his breeding is not suitable for a Derby winner. The Derby is run at 1\ miles, a distance that usually requires a pedigree with both speed and stamina. Breeding experts say the horse's bloodlines are more suited to speed and sprint distances, despite the presence of Secretariat and Mr. Prospector in those bloodlines. ``He has handled everything very well so far,'' said trainer Juan ``Paco'' Gonzalez. If the racing world hasn't become enamored with Came Home yet, perhaps it's because his owners took awhile to come around as well. The colt's breeders, John Toffan and Trudy McCaffery, tried to sell Came Home at auction several times but never got the price they wanted. They named him Came Home because he kept coming back to them after trips to the sales ring. It turned out to be fortunate for all involved. The colt has earned $871,440 for Toffan and McCaffery, who eventually sold shares in Came Home to William S. Farish and Houstonian John B. Goodman. Toffan and McCaffery are no strangers to good horses. They raced Came Home's dam, Nice Assay, and also campaigned successful runners like Free House and Bien Bien. All were handled by Gonzalez, a native of Yahualeca, Mexico, who came to the United States in 1964. After 24 years of working for the late Joe Manzi, Gonzalez started training horses for Toffan and McCaffery in 1990. Besides Free House, who ran third in the 1997 Derby, Gonzalez has also trained Mane Minister, third in the 1991 Derby. Came Home could do even better than that. ``He's ready to go,'' Gonzalez said. ``I think he will run well.'' Still, there's a reason they call the long stretch at Churchill ``Heartbreak Lane.'' Many a potential superhorse has left his hopes for immortality at the eighth poll. On paper, it appears Came Home can avoid that fate. If he does, maybe the rest of the world will take notice. 
