That's not a knee-jerk opinion from Buckingham, a senior consultant with the Gallup Organization and co-author of the groundbreaking management book ``First, Break All the Rules.'' He points to a Gallup survey of 700,000 employees, those workers with the least tenure from among the 3 million employees at 350 companies that Gallup has studied. Among workers who had been with companies for six months or less, 38 percent were classified as engaged and productive, half were not engaged (in other words, going through the motions) and 12 percent were described as actively disengaged (discussing their unhappiness with colleagues). Among workers who had been at their companies 10 years or longer, Buckingham said, only 20 percent were engaged, and 23 percent were actively disengaged. Even workers who had been with the companies for less than 3 years had a significantly poorer attitude than new employees, the survey showed. And workers in the United States are relatively joyous compared with their counterparts in other countries, Buckingham said. While 29 percent of U.S. workers overall were engaged, only 17 percent were in the United Kingdom _ and 9 percent were in Japan. What's to blame for the disengagement and disenchantment? Misguided management and a seriously flawed performance appraisal system, Buckingham said. ``What is the best way to increase one person's performance?'' asked Buckingham, the keynote speaker who kicked off the conference. ``Focus on each employee's strengths, manage around his or her weaknesses. ``Most organizations are built on exactly the opposite answer. It's two minutes on what you did well and 58 minutes on your `areas of opportunity.''' Focusing on weaknesses has become human nature, Buckingham said. When parents were asked what they would focus on if their child's report card included two A's and an F, they overwhelmingly said the F. When U.S. workers were asked which would help them improve more _ knowing their strengths or knowing their weaknesses _ only 41 percent said strengths. Buckingham said the percentage was even smaller in other countries. ``With apologies to Madonna,'' he said, ``we are living in a remedial world.'' The Gallup survey clearly showed, however, that bosses who focused more on employees' strengths had far more engaged workers, Buckingham said. Those engaged workers are less likely to leave and more likely to be productive, which raises their companies' profits. Buckingham pointed to golfer Tiger Woods and his swing coach, Butch Harmon. If Harmon had focused on Woods' weaknesses a few years ago, he would have had him practice hitting balls out of sand traps, because Woods was mediocre in that area. Instead, though, Harmon concentrated on Woods' overall swing. What he said, Buckingham explained, was, ``You have the best swing I've ever seen. I think I can make it better.'' ``Weakness-fixing might prevent failure,'' Buckingham said. ``Strengths-building leads to excellence.'' But implementing a strengths- building attitude means more than establishing some corporate policy, he said. Individual managers need to be trained to recognize strengths and encourage them. ``All organizations' cultures are equally inconsistent,'' Buckingham said. ``(At a company) we'll find some work groups in the top 5 percent of any work groups we've seen anywhere, and some work groups in the bottom 5 percent of any work groups we've seen anywhere.'' He said emphasizing strengths is so important because of the way the human brain evolves. From ages 3 through 15, Buckingham explained, the brain tends to build better connections for functions that a person uses most often, while eliminating connections for functions that are rarely used. ``You wake up on your 16th birthday with half as many synaptic connections than you had when you were 3.'' That's why trying to force workers into a particular mold can backfire, Buckingham said. ``How much of someone can you change? Not much. We're all endearingly unique.'' Traditional performance appraisals don't work for precisely that reason, Buckingham said. They list a job's required skills and duties, rate people on how they perform in those areas, state which skills they lack and encourage people to improve in those areas. Those appraisals are badly misguided because they are based on three weak assumptions, he said: that the people who perform best have a particular set of behaviors that allows them to succeed, that all the behaviors can be learned and that all the behaviors should be learned. In reality, Buckingham said, the best workers achieve the same goals, but they do it with different behaviors. He added that many behaviors can be very hard to learn because they require an inherent talent that not all workers have. ``Teaching someone a skill won't cover for their lack of talent,'' Buckingham said. He said some nurses are able to give injections that don't seem to hurt patients as much as typical shots do. As those nurses were studied, researchers found that they had empathy for the patients, and would tell them before the injection, ``This is going to hurt a bit.'' Teaching all nurses to say that phrase before giving a shot might sound logical, Buckingham said, but it doesn't work because many don't have the talent for empathy that the successful nurses do. When nurses without empathy say, ``This is going to hurt a bit,'' it can sound like they're enjoying the patient's pain. He said a better path for appraisals is to define the required outcomes of the job, rate how well the employee is achieving those outcomes and identify those areas where the person is talented or not-so-talented. Then the boss and worker should come up with a plan for strengthening the talents and managing around the weaknesses, focusing as much as possible on the strengths unless a weakness is glaring. Look at the appraisal forms themselves, Buckingham said. Many of them grade people on a scale of 1 to 5, with one end of the scale listed as ``strengths'' and the other as ``areas of opportunity'' _ as if you don't have an opportunity to build on your strengths. ``Change that,'' Buckingham said. ``Change it tomorrow. You're demoralizing the place.'' 
