Grinning office workers and shouting men hoisting Kalashnikov rifles burst out the doors of Yasir Arafat's bullet-pocked office building before dawn on Thursday, drinking in the cool night air for the first time after 34 days of Israeli siege. But upstairs, Arafat himself was seething over the news that as the Israeli troops and tanks left Ramallah, fighting had broken out at that other siege, the one around the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem. Seated at the head of a conference table with a Quran and a box of tissues before him, Arafat, in his trademark fatigues and black-and-white checked head scarf, fired off staccato phrases in unmistakable fury. Asked about his monthlong confinement to just two buildings, he shot back: ``It's not important. The agreement _ what happened is against the agreement.'' He was referring to a Bush administration compromise that broke the siege this morning, by putting six men who are wanted by Israel and who had been confined here into a Palestinian jail under American and British supervision. Red with anger at the Israelis, Arafat sputtered: ``These terrorists, Nazis and racists. How can we keep silent about them and this ugly crime?'' Arafat's aides said later that he felt he had been tricked, that the Israelis had timed their withdrawal here with an assault on the church, which is revered by Christians as the birthplace of Jesus. Arafat is always careful to stress the plight of his people before his own predicament. He did not miss that opportunity on Wednesday night. ``It's not important what is happening to me here,'' he said, more calmly. ``What concerns me is what is happening in the Church of the Nativity.'' Tired but obviously proud, others were more openly focused on marking the end of their nightmarish month. Men embraced and kissed each other on the cheeks. Tawfik Tirawi, the Palestinian director of intelligence in the West Bank, stood on the steps outside, proclaiming, ``This is a victory for the steadfastness of the Palestinian people.'' But a couple of floors above him, one of those steadfast people, Khaled Shwais, 35, stared silently out a window at the tumult in the square. Asked how he felt, Shwais thought a moment, then said with great seriousness, ``Good, but .... '' He indicated his back, where, others said, a bullet had penetrated his spine. He indicated his legs, both bandaged. He was holding a bag filled with a yellowish liquid that had come from him. He said that he was a member of the militant group Al Aqsa Martyrs Brigades, and that he was wanted by Israel. In unventilated rooms blue with cigarette smoke and swampy with the smell of many rarely washed people, those who endured the siege _ security men, gunmen, staff members and European and American supporters _ expressed relief and determination. They recalled going without a glimpse of the sun, with every window blocked to stop sniper fire, and eating one meal a day for the first 10 days of the siege. Everywhere were signs of the invention forced by scarcity. An olive can and two water bottles had been converted to bowls. Claude Leostic, 50, from Brest, France, one of about 40 non-Palestinians in the compound, had entered at the beginning of the siege in solidarity with those inside. She was ready to tell the world about the conflict. ``We have a lot to tell,'' she said, ``a lot to denounce.'' Outside, the compound was a wreck. The Israeli soldiers had systematically crushed cars in the compound and piled them, upside down, one on top of the other. At the bottom of the pile was a black armored Chevrolet Suburban sport utility vehicle that Palestinians said was a gift from President Clinton. ``This is the armored car of President Arafat,'' said Ahmed Muhammad Ali, a guard, pointing at the remains of the Suburban. He pointed at another squashed car: ``This is the Mercedes President Arafat used sometimes to go inside Ramallah.'' In a garage, all the windows of five Mercedes sedans had been smashed. A fire extinguisher had been hurled into the backseat of one, and a refrigerator lay on the hood of another. The Israeli soldiers appear to have lived a parallel squatters' life in an office building they seized about 30 feet from the Palestinians' quarters. They had sandbags instead of shelving to block their windows, and ample supplies of dried coffee and other food, to judge by the emptied containers littering the rooms. Like the Palestinians, they slept on thin mattresses laid on the floors, mattresses usually used by Arafat's guards. They had plenty of Hebrew newspapers, and did not have to rely, as the Palestinians did, on the French consul occasionally to bring them printed news of the outside world. The Israelis had turned one room into a trash dump, and on Thursday morning Palestinians were picking through it, studying their rumpled documents. At least four safes had been blown open in the building. ``I'm looking for my passport,'' said Zaccariah Razen, a guard, as he searched a ransacked closet. ``I'm looking for my clothes.'' Many of those who camped in the compound, like Kevin Skvorak of Brooklyn, who said he raced through the Israeli lines into the building about 10 days ago, planned to spend one more night here. ``It's home,'' he said. 
