Otherwise, baseball fans should worry they might wake up one day and find Mickey Mouse ears growing out of their ball caps. It should be reassuring when the people who run Major League Baseball say they want their ballparks rated G. ``We're in pursuit of Disney,'' Kevin Hallinan, senior vice president for security and facility management for Major League Baseball, said from his New York office yesterday. ``Disney does a great job.'' Yes, that's true -- provided you like your ballpark experience whitewashed like ``The Truman Show,'' or as dull as an afternoon in Mayberry. It can't only be anarchists, liberals or drunkards who find some forms of fan craziness creative and entertaining. Or perhaps it reveals my seedier side (and minority point of view) to say that an occasional burst of passionate cussing (at an umpire who has blown a call) or a kiss between two bleacher-bound ``love'' birds is part of what makes going to the ballpark a bit like life. Code of conduct? Baseball games should be saltier than the peanuts, with more surprises than the Cracker Jacks. That doesn't mean the slippery slope of legislating behavior at sporting events hasn't become one of the biggest issues facing stadium authorities or teams. The issue of civility has taken a few hits of late. Most gross was the booing of the Canadian anthem during NBA and NHL playoff games in Detroit and on Long Island, respectively. It is amazing to consider the shamelessness of this kind of behavior, considering the first incident took place right after four Canadian military personnel were killed supporting America's war on terrorism in Afghanistan. When the President implored Americans to get back to normal life after the Sept. 11 attacks, it's too bad the luck we felt to still be able to enjoy these kinds of luxuries was quickly forgotten. This week, after NBA All-Star Tim Duncan's father died and Duncan missed Game 4 of the Spurs-Sonics playoff series, I got a phone message from a Sonics ``fan.'' This person ripped Duncan for being ``soft'' and letting down his team. He promised that after the Sonics won Game 4, which they did, this Sonics ``fan'' was going to be in San Antonio tonight for Game 5, just so he could sit behind the Spurs bench and trash-talk Duncan. This is just one example of why it's naefve to think arenas and teams don't have to be prepared to take on ``paying customers'' whose behavior is antisocial -- or worse. But where do you draw the line? Unwittingly, the Mariners injected themselves into a national discussion this week about fan behavior and ballpark control policies -- a discussion the Mariners hope will end quickly. Mariners president Chuck Armstrong said yesterday the team does not have a policy to ban or remove patrons who wear T-shirts like those (``Yankees Suck'') worn at last weekend's series. It might have been the overzealous work of a couple of security guards who interacted with people wearing the controversial shirts. Armstrong said the Mariners' attempt to promote a family atmosphere means they have addressed spectators, although not in a way as to assume the shirts are a problem, in and of themselves. ``What we say is, `We would appreciate you covering up those shirts, so as not to incite an incident in the stands.' Some did. Some didn't, but no shirts were confiscated,'' Armstrong said, adding that no one was banned for wearing the shirts. ``I would like to point out that sentiment is running about 10 to 1 in favor of our stance,'' he said. The Mariners' move to Safeco Field in July 1999 came just about the same time baseball sent out a crowd management initiative -- a program upon which all 30 clubs could model their stadium policies. That includes a club's decision to attempt to eliminate customs that in ballparks like Fenway Park or Yankee Stadium would be as natural as breathing, including the tasteless T-shirts. ``I can more than anticipate, with 16 years of experience, what happens when people wear shirts like this. It just doesn't have a good history. And if you went to the Yankees or Red Sox, they would probably say this is something they would like not to have,'' Hallinan said, adding: ``Isn't there an expectation upon us that we be proactive against potential problems? Isn't that our duty and responsibility? The Mariners are not looking to be provocative. They're not looking to be in a tug of war with fans. They're looking to avoid distractions.'' However, again, even Major League Baseball can't dismiss that the biggest problem at stadiums isn't fans wearing dumb T-shirts, but the fact that alcohol is part of the environment. As long as beer flows during sporting events, trouble will follow, but that's not a bottom line baseball will move on. ``At Yankee Stadium, they have done a lot of work. They've gone into the bleachers and taken alcohol (concession) out of there,'' Hallinan said. Oddly, the Mariners head to the Bronx tonight -- a scene of many great games, and some of the all-time worst fan behavior. The Mariners will be tested. So, too, will civility, because in spite of all efforts, Yankee Stadium is no Disney World. 
