Floats in the passing parade: The folks who yearn for an armed nation are stepping up their demand that airline pilots be allowed to pack heat. The clamor was especially insistent at the recent convention of the National Rifle Association, which, it sometimes seems, won't be satisfied until no baby goes home from the maternity ward without a personal firearm. The proposition to arm pilots is an intriguing one, when you think about it. Airliner cockpits are being outfitted with bullet- and batter-proof doors that are supposedly never to be opened during flight. This would seem to leave the members of the gun-toting cockpit crews with no one to shoot but one another. Does this somehow make you feel safer? Those white folks who always seem to know more about what it's like to be African-American than black folks do have been hollering for years that we are now a colorblind society. And since we are, (1) any black bellyaching to the contrary is just empty posturing and (2) remaining racial gaps result from the refusal of African-Americans to suck it up and thus are their own damned fault. A study by the Center for Community Change, a housing advocacy group, has found that black and Hispanic homeowners with above-average incomes are stuck with high-rate mortgages in much greater numbers than whites with the same incomes. And although the spread is national, it is far wider in some areas than in others. Something is at work here that can't be wholly explained by differences in credit history and other non-racial factors. Some of the difference surely traces to the fact that minorities learned through generations that there was little point in applying to mainstream financial institutions and still go to pricey subprime lenders. Most banks have become aggressive in trying to serve minority neighorhoods. but it takes long years to work the effects of racist poisoning out of the system. You'll know we are really a colorblind society when it occurs to no one to bother insisting we are. Americans' love affair with the car doesn't stop us from having dalliances with any new vehicle that comes along with an engine you can rev. Which leaves the Bush administration in another of those environmental pickles that so bedevil it. This administration has yet to meet an industry it won't bend over backwards for _ energy, steel, timber, autos, you name it _ and leans toward indulging all the motorized turmoil in national parks. But most people go to national parks for the quiet and the scenery, not for the smog and the din of racing engines. The Bush administration has delayed a scheduled ban on snowmobiles in Yellowstone and Grand Teton National Parks, but the Environmental Protection Agency, which is doing precious little protecting these days, has for once bestirred itself and sided with the ban. Maybe its clue was the recent photograph of its own rangers forced to wear gas masks while the snowmobiles zoomed. Meanwhile, a federal judge in Texas has upheld a ban on Jet Skis and similar water-going hot rods in key national parks and recreation areas, where their churn was destroying the peace and the water life. The administration is mulling that one, too. Ahhh _ home, home, on the range, where the Jet Skis and snowmobiles and off-road vehicles and dune-buggies play. Tom Teepen is a columnist for Cox Newspapers. He is based in Atlanta. E-mail: teepencolumn(at)coxnews.com. Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
