Los Angeles Dodgers pitching coach Jim Colborn recently spoke with Hideo Nomo in an effort to increase his pitch efficiency and decrease his walk total. If it meant a solo homer or two, that would be tolerated. It worked, but not exactly how the Dodgers envisioned it. Nomo walked two batters in eight innings, but two of the four hits he allowed were solo homers as the National League West-leading Cincinnati Reds beat the Dodgers 4-0 Wednesday in front of a season-low 23,346 at Dodger Stadium. The Dodgers scored one run in the first two games of the series, which Cincinnati -- winners of seven in a row and nine of 11 -- can sweep tonight. The Dodgers (16-11) and Arizona each lost for the second consecutive day while San Francisco won, leaving the teams in a three-way tie atop the West Division. Nomo (2-4) struck out a season-high 10, the 29th time he reached double digits in his career, but again saw a typically poor offensive effort from the Dodgers lineup. Cincinnati starter Joey Hamilton (2-1) struck out seven and allowed six hits in 7 innings. The Dodgers have scored 10 runs in games Nomo started and seven runs in his 38 innings pitched. ``It's frustrating, and I'm guilty of it like anybody, and that's the lack of energy,'' Dodgers leadoff man Dave Roberts said. ``If you take innings where we have opportunities, there's just no energy. I don't know if it's playing at home or whatever. That's the most frustrating thing. You're going to lose games, but the word is energy and I'm as guilty as anybody.'' The Dodgers entered the day tied for the National League lead in grounding into double plays, 28. On Wednesday, Mark Grudzielanek and Cesar Izturis added to that total. Also, the Dodgers had the bases loaded with one out in third inning but Paul Lo Duca flied out to right field and Grudzielanek was thrown out at the plate by Juan Encarnacion. Another bases-loaded opportunity was wasted in the eighth when Shawn Green grounded out to first on a 3-1 curveball by Gabe White. ``When you get to the point where you have three guys on -- there's not a whole lot of signs to give there when you're hitting there in the middle of your order,'' Dodgers manager Jim Tracy said. ``You need production. That's all there is to that. But you go through things like that, like we've gone through the last couple of days. That's really the one thing right now that is holding this ball club up from being awfully good in my opinion.'' Nomo, who walked 18 in his first five starts and issued four walks three times, worked on challenging batters with the bases empty. The result was Barry Larkin's first homer to leadoff a game since 1994 when he smashed a 2-1 pitch over the left field fence to give the Reds a 1-0 lead. Nomo fell behind Juan Encarnacion 1-0 in the fourth inning and paid for challenging him: Encarnacion hit his seventh homer to put the Reds ahead 2-0. It was the first time since Kevin Brown opening day that a Dodgers starter allowed two homers in a game. There was also a moment of lapsed concentration that led to a run in the sixth inning. Hamilton led off with a single and Larkin doubled, setting up Sean Casey's RBI-ground out. Nomo walked Adam Dunn to put runners on the corners with two outs, then caught Dunn roaming too far from the base on a pick-off attempt. However, while running toward Dunn between first and second, Larkin broke for home and scored on Nomo's errant throw increase Cincinnati's lead to 4-0. 
