Christi York traveled to New York in search of inspiration. But before she found that, she needed to locate SoHo. A few weeks before leaving Vancouver, York, a visual artist and graphic designer, contacted Big Apple Greeters, a nonprofit organization that offers visitors a chance to see New York from a New Yorker's point of view. She filled out a form on the organization's Web site detailing her interests in art, music and shopping. After perusing the list of more that 100 specific neighborhoods, she chose SoHo, Greenwich Village and the Lower East Side. She noted the dates she would be in town and hit the send button. In the next few days, based on her preferences, she got word that her escort for the afternoon would be Alfredo Egas, one of the 500 volunteer guides who work with Big Apple Greeters. On a normal week, Egas guides a few visits on Saturday or Sunday, but with time off before starting a new job, he has also been volunteering during the week. After trading a few e-mail messages to better gauge York's needs and interests, Egas, a native of Ecuador and a three-year resident of New York, met her in the lobby of her hotel a few blocks north of Times Square and began their journey downtown. ``I heard that SoHo is the place for galleries and Chelsea is home to a new art scene,'' said York, a small woman with short dark hair and black rimmed glasses. She was clad in blue jeans and a blue T-shirt and looked much younger than her 32 years. ``But I have had a weird phobia about getting on the subway alone and figuring out how to get there and where to go once I do arrive.'' From the lobby of York's hotel, she and Egas walked the two blocks south to Times Square. Egas stopped, stepped to the edge of the sidewalk to allow the flow of people to carry on uninterrupted and began a brief history. ``Pepsi had the main billboard to the north of Times Square,'' said Egas. ``After 20 years, they decided to give it up. The very next day, Coke signed a lease for 300 years.'' He noted a few other points of interest and continued: ``Times Square is named because the New York Times Building was one of the original corners of the square.'' And then he pointed out the original buildings that anchored the other main points. Big Apple Greeters began 10 years ago when Lynn Brooks, a lifelong New Yorker, was traveling abroad. People she talked to on her travels thought that New York was ``scary and unfriendly and unmanageable,'' said Brooks. ``Even New Yorkers were fed up, so I decided to do something about it. I wanted real New Yorkers to welcome visitors and show them an insiders view.'' She came home and started writing letters. ``I wrote to the city council and I wrote to the mayor. All said 'what a great idea, but I can't help you.''' Finally Ruth Messinger, then the president of the borough of Manhattan, gave Brooks a chance and her name to use in fundraising efforts. ``I decided that it was an absolutely brilliant idea and it was part of my authority to give them office space so I did,'' Messinger said. Ten years later, Big Apple Greeters still has city office space and enough of a budget to pay five staff members. Its business comes through word of mouth and donated advertising space. York and Egas reached the subway entrance after a few more blocks and he presented her with a credit card-sized card good for unlimited rides for the next 24 hours. As they waited for the next downtown train, they discussed the city maps and Egas explained how to tell downtown from uptown and some tricks to help her navigate. (''This is where we are on your map and this is where we are going.'' ``The majority of Manhattan streets are on a grid system. If you are on an avenue, walking toward the lower street numbers will take you south.'') About half of the 5,000 trips that the Big Apple Greeters guide every year are for first- time visitors who need help with orientation. ``They want to understand what and where things are so they do not overschedule,'' said Liz Smith, director of public relations for Big Apple Greeter. ``We want to give them the confidence to be comfortable and empowered, so they can really enjoy the city.'' About 15 minutes later, York and Egas emerged from the subway on Prince Street about 60 blocks south of Times Square. They walked a few block north to the junction of Houston Street and Broadway and the downtown portion of the afternoon began. (The name SoHo comes from combining ``south'' with ``Houston'' -- the neighborhood just south of Houston Street.) ``For me,'' Egas said, ``SoHo starts here.'' They continued through the neighborhood and Egas pointed out the best place to buy shoes cheap and explained the concept of a sample sale. ``Designers practically give away their clothes from last season. Just look for the fliers; there are handouts on the corners every day.'' ``Throughout SoHo many of the building are old warehouses where artists could find inexpensive places to live and work,'' Egas said. ``Now the area is much more pricey and upscale, but the great spaces and galleries remain.'' They continued wandering through SoHo and headed north to Greenwich Village. After strolling through the neighborhood, it began to rain, so York and Egas reboarded the subway and headed back to York's hotel. As they parted in the lobby, Egas left to return to his apartment around the corner. ``I wanted to get a flavor of the city,'' said York. ``It was cool just to get out and have a chaperon on the first day. I would tell anyone to try it because, well, it's free.'' For more information, www.bigapplegreeter.org. (EDITORS: There is no charge for use of this story, but please send a tearsheet to Professor Stephen D. Isaacs, Columbia News Service, Graduate School of Journalism, Columbia University, 2950 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10027.) 
