Here are the stories New York Times editors are considering for the Page 1 of Friday, May 3. The N.Y. Times News Service night supervisor is Pat Ryan; phone: (888) 346-9867; e-mail: patryan(at)nytimes.com. 	INTERNATIONAL 	(Will move in ``i'' news file.) 	MIDEAST (Ramallah, West Bank) _ A ledeall: By turns bitter and triumphant, Yasser Arafat emerged from a month-long Israeli siege on Thursday to survey the damage done to the unofficial Palestinian capital, as leaders on both sides sought new footing with the deadlock here suddenly broken by American and Saudi Arabian pressure. Other developments. By James Bennet 	With photos, NYT1-6,7-8,13-14, and a map. 	MIDEAST-JENIN (Jenin Refugee Camp, West Bank) _ A day after Israeli opposition prompted the United Nations to disband a fact-finding mission into the Israeli Army's disputed attack on this refugee camp, a week-long investigation by an American human rights group found that Palestinian claims of hundreds of civilian deaths here are exaggerated. But the inquiry, which involved more than 100 interviews, found evidence that Israeli forces used civilians as human shields throughout the incursion, destroyed more houses than needed for ``any conceivable military purpose'' and blocked the passage of ambulances and humanitarian groups to the camp for eleven days. The group's report concluded that those actions, among others, constituted ``strong prima facie evidence'' that Israeli soldiers ``committed grave breaches of the Geneva Conventions, or war crimes;'' and called for further investigation by Israeli or international bodies. By David Rhode. 	MIDEAST-CONGRESS (Washington) _ The House and Senate moved Thursday toward virtually unqualified support for Israel in its recent military operations, largely brushing aside last-minute attempts by the Bush administration to soften language concerning the Palestinians. The two Congressional resolutions are non-binding, but they would put the legislative branch of the American government on record as backing Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's military steps, even as President Bush was calling on Israel to end its ``occupation'' of several Palestinian towns. By Alison Mitchell. 	NATIONAL GENERAL 	(Will move in ``a'' news file.) 	PRIEST-ABUSE-POLL (Undated) _ American Catholics favor a hard line in dealing with priests who sexually abuse children and teen-agers, saying that such priests should be barred from participating in parish life, and that any accusations of abuse should be investigated by local law enforcement rather than the church, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll. By Robin Toner 	With a graphic. 	With 	PRIEST-ARREST (Boston) _ The Rev. Paul Shanley was arrested in San Diego on three counts of raping a boy in Massachusetts. His accuser went to prosecutors this week and said Shanley had raped him between 1983 and 1990. Angry reaction to the Boston archdiocese's sympathetic handling of Shanley helped lead the pope to call last week's meeting of cardinal's in Rome. These are the first criminal charges against Shanley. By Pam Belluck. 	And 	POPE-CONFESSION (Rome) _ At a time when the American church is dealing with the sex-abuse scandal, the pope on Thursday stressed the need for Catholics to confess their sins to be forgiven _ but said some habitual sinners could never be absolved. He calls for reforming penance process, saying priests have become too lax in having group-penance services. By Melinda Henneberger. 	FINANCIAL 	(Will move in ``f'' news file.) 	DELL-NORRIS-COLUMN (Undated) _ Gambling on your own stock price is not something companies often advertise they are doing. But for some companies, particularly technology companies, it was a popular strategy in the 1990s. Now it is coming back to haunt them. The costs are not showing up in financial statements, but they are huge. In Dell Computer's last fiscal year, ended Feb. 1, the company bought back 69 million shares for $3 billion. That means it paid an average price of more than $43 a share. Had Dell simply called its broker and placed a buy order for its stock, the most it could have paid was $31.32 a share, 28 percent less. By Floyd Norris. 	(Editors: All clients receive all budgets, but only full-service clients receive all stories. Please check your level of service to determine which stories you will receive.) 
