Secretary of State Colin Powell made the announcement of the international conference after meeting with the other three parties Thursday on how best to deal with the Israeli-Palestinian stand-off. ``We committed ourselves to the promotion of a serious and accelerated negotiations toward a settlement,'' Powell said. ``We discussed how best to begin to prepare for an international conference meeting this summer.'' Powell said that no decision has been made as to where and when the meeting would be and who would participate. In the past President Bush has been reluctant to call a high-level Middle East summit, fearful that it would fail much as the peace talks that were hosted by President Clinton at Camp David collapsed in the summer of 2000. Furthermore, it may be difficult to get the Middle East parties to attend since Israel's Prime Minister Ariel Sharon has in the past refused to deal with Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat. However, the Arab leaders have insisted that Arafat must be part of any negotiations. On Thursday, Arafat emerged from his headquarters compound in the West Bank town of Ramallah, where he had been confined by Israeli troops and tanks for more than a month, and toured the battle-scarred town. Israel withdrew its forces from Ramallah on Wednesday under a deal brokered by the United States and Britain in which six wanted men inside the compound were sent to a Palestinian jail, where they will be guarded by American and British security agents. Powell said that issue of sending international observers to the region also came up at the meeting that included United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan and representatives from Russia and the European Union. ``As part of the United States' commitment to moving forward, we were prepared to put some number of American monitors, observers in place,'' Powell said. Earlier on Thursday President Bush, who met with European Union leaders, said that progress was being made in the Middle East but that Palestinians must embrace democratic principles if they intend to create their own state. While Bush said that the Israelis must end their occupation of the West Bank, he placed much of the burden on the Palestinian leadership to change a political culture that he suggested had not served their people well. ``Such a state cannot be based on a foundation of terror and corruption,'' Bush said during a news conference with the European Commission President Romano Prodi of Italy and the leader of the EU delegation, Spanish Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar. Bush said that a Palestinian state must be based on principles that include ``democracy and open markets, the rule of law, transparent and accountable administration and respect for individual liberties and civil society.'' While the Middle East dominated the White House meeting with the Europeans, the leaders also discussed anti-terrorism strategies and tensions over trade. Bush said he was upbeat over the prospects in the region despite setbacks, including Israelis' refusal to allow a United Nations team to inspect the Jenin camp and Yasser Arafat's condemnation of the Israelis as ``terrorists, Nazis, racists.'' ``I'm optimistic we're making good progress,'' the president said. ``After all, a week ago Yasser Arafat was boarded up in his building in Ramallah. ... They're now out. He's free now to show leadership, to lead the world.'' Bush noted that he will meet with Sharon at the White House next week. He has not, however, scheduled a meeting with Arafat. While the Europeans have been generally critical of the United States' pro-Israel tilt, the delegation at the White House stressed the need to reach an agreement in the troubled region. Aznar said that ``we attach the utmost importance to the work that we can do jointly in the Middle East.'' Aznar said that any agreement must lead to ``an independent Democratic Palestinian state and a state of Israel that is entitled to live in security, calm and free from any kind of violent or terrorist aggression on its territory.'' In the area of trade, the Europeans and the United States acknowledged that they had not made progress on issues such as steel. The United States has slapped tariffs on foreign steel claiming that some countries are dumping government subsidized steel in this country. The Europeans have threatened to retaliate. Prodi said the two sides agreed to continue their discussions on steel. XXX END OF STORY 
