SPIDER-MAN Critic's rating: Three stars of a possible five Director: Sam Raimi Stars: Tobey Maguire, Willem Dafoe, Kirsten Dunst Length: 112 min. Rated: PG-13 (''stylized violence and action'') With his limpid blue eyes and his sheepish smile, Tobey Maguire always looks as if he was just aroused from a pleasant nap. He's never more convincing in ``Spider-Man'' than when something makes his character, nerdy-teen-turned-superhero Peter Parker, a little groggy. But while Maguire's passivity serves him well as the shy Peter, the movie itself suffers from being a little too placid. This was probably somewhat necessary. ``Spider-Man,'' adapted from Stan Lee and Steve Ditko's popular Marvel comic books, has a problem that's shared by most comics-turned-movies: It has to explain itself to neophytes. So we get the whole story of how Peter became Spider-Man, as well as the stories behind the love interest and the villain, and there's just enough exposition to slow the movie down. But director Sam Raimi and screenwriter David Koepp (who reportedly had an uncredited assist from Alvin Sargent) respect the source material, and do their best to move things along; an early version of the movie reportedly had two bad guys, but Raimi wisely reduced it to one. So here's the story in a nutshell: After being bitten by a genetically altered spider, Peter develops unusual powers. He's suddenly stronger, able to leap from building to building, dodge fists and bullets, crawl up walls, shoot webbing from his wrists and sense imminent danger. But he still can't work up the nerve to make a move on his longtime crush, Mary Jane Watson (Kirsten Dunst). Meanwhile, his best buddy Harry Osborn (James Franco) ``does'' make a move, while Harry's father Norman (Willem Dafoe), a power-hungry businessman, meddles with nature, and turns into the vengeful, maniacal and homicidal Green Goblin. When violent tragedy invades Peter's life, he begins to use his powers to fight crime, but also manages to provoke suspicion among Manhattan's cynical populace _ urged on by sensationalist newspaperman J. Jonah Jameson ``(Oz'''s J.K. Simmons, who steals every scene with machine-gun dialogue straight out of ``The Front Page.)'' And, of course, Spider-Man and the Green Goblin begin to have a hero-archvillain relationship that makes people even more suspicious. Raimi, a fan of the comics, does his best not to upset purists (although Spidey's organic, instead of homemade, webbing will tick off some people, and the movie skips over much Spider-Man mythology by ignoring Peter's first love interest, Gwen Stacy). He and the screenwriters spend a lot of time on the human story, and their best bits are done with mirrors: Peter, after awakening from the spider bite, studies his suddenly buff physique with smirking satisfaction, and Osborn _ in a sequence well-acted by Dafoe _ has a reflective argument with his evil alter-ego. The filmmakers also illustrate that Peter's rapidly changing body is an example of puberty run amok by inserting a loving lecture from Peter's Uncle Ben (Cliff Robertson), who shares a Norman Rockwell-esque existence with Peter and his Aunt May (Rosemary Harris) until darkness enters their lives. The love story _ or infatuation story, at this point _ between Peter and Mary Jane is integral to the Spider-Man legend, but in the movie, it threatens to interrupt the flow; it's the type of thing that is almost all set-up here, with payoff promised in the sequel. And although the film provides showcase roles for Maguire and Dafoe, the story line reduces the talented Dunst to wallpaper _ very attractive wallpaper. To his credit, Raimi does have Mary Jane hold her own against a group of thugs, but it's still Spider-Man who comes to her rescue. Raimi also provides Mary Jane's backstory about her dysfunctional family, only to forget all about it later in the film. Raimi fares somewhat better with the action sequences, although they have their own problems; he uses a lot of movement to cover up for the obvious fakery brought on by computer-generated effects, and leavens things considerably during the early scenes when Peter/Spidey is trying to figure out how to control his newfound powers. An early match with a wrestler called Bone Saw McGraw (real-life wrestler Randy Savage) is amusing and entertaining, but when Spider-Man and the Green Goblin have their verbal face-offs, Maguire and Dafoe are limited by their costumes _ neither has a moving mouth, and the Spider-Man mask's tinted-windshield eyes hide much of the expressiveness that Maguire could bring to the role. Still, the movie counts as a modest success simply because it remains largely true to its roots, and the story that Lee and Ditko develop has a human side to it that's as strong _ if not stronger _ than its superhuman side. A sequel is already a foregone conclusion, and the movie ends with many doors open to the next chapter in the saga. It's probably there that it will be able to realize its full potential. (Robert Philpot is a film critic for the Fort Worth Star-Telegram. You can call him at (817) 390-7278, or e-mail: robp(at)star-telegram.com. Visit the Star-Telegram's online services on the World Wide Web: www.star-telegram.com) nn 
