I first came to this city when I was a child, 9 or 10, on a morning train from Boston, with my great-aunts Ruth and Grace. It was just before Christmas and snowing a little. I remember being floored by the scale of the place, but I also noticed how pretty, almost dainty it was: the silvery arcs of the Chrysler Building; the dark filigree of Central Park trees glimpsed from a cab window; later, lights twinkling. Who knows how this happens, but the city got into my system. I couldn't have said at the time, ``This is where I want to be.'' But it was where I wanted to be. I still feel that way. Obviously, millions of other adoptive New Yorkers do, too, whether they come by accident, because they want to or because they have to. And for many of them, as for me, that initial, bonding attraction is visual. Maybe that's why so many people feel compelled to snap pictures of the the city. Like many natural beauties, New York is effortlessly photogenic. It has fabulous bones and hardly any bad angles. It looks good in anything: rain, sunshine, blizzards. Its personality comes through in flashes: antic, sloppy, noble, rude. Its bad days are more exciting than good days anywhere else. And its good days are the best, period. Since September, more photographs of the city have probably been circulating than at any other time in its history. Countless new pictures, professional and amateur, have been shot; countless old pictures have been hauled out of storage for scrutiny. Three institutions _ the Jewish Museum, the Museum of the City of New York and the Metropolitan Museum of Art _ have big but very different shows of such material this spring. ``New York: Capital of Photography'' at the Jewish Museum is the most stimulating. Organized by the art critic and photographic historian Max Kozloff, with the help of Karen Levitov, an assistant curator at the museum, it is a century-long historical survey of the city as image, but a survey with a distinctive viewpoint and premise. The viewpoint is literally street-level. Kozloff's show is not about a postcard skyline; it's about a city that's lived in rather than visited, in which ordinary people do everyday things, and about a genre of photography that concentrates on those people. The show's premise is that this genre, ``street photography,'' is largely a Jewish invention. A glance at the names on the roster _ from Paul Strand and Lisette Model to Garry Winogrand and Nan Goldin _ seems to bear this out, though non-Jewish artists like Lewis Hine, Walker Evans and James VanDerZee are also here. And Kozloff might easily have used the idea as a hook for a self-congratulatory golden oldies line-up. But he doesn't do that. He takes pains to represent well-known artists with unfamiliar pictures, as in Margaret Bourke-White's shot of Sergei Eisenstein getting a shave on the terrace of her Empire State Building studio, a kind of Potemkin-meets-Sweeney Todd tableau. More important, he turns undernoticed photographers into featured players. Of course New York, ever mercurial, is the star. Right at the start you can feel its grime and hear its clamor in an 1898 shot of vendors and shoppers on Hester Street, an immigrant enclave of wall-to-wall people. By contrast, West 42nd Street, seen in 1912, looks like a ghost town, clean as a whistle, with barely a pedestrian in sight. A couple of power images come next: Alfred Stieglitz's ``City of Ambition'' (1910) and Paul Strand's ``Wall Street, New York'' (1915). They are virtual logos of a high-modern moment, but they don't feel utopian or even affirmative. Stieglitz catches the big-business towers of the financial district in a harsh, eye-hurting glare; Strand turns Wall Street into a giant columbarium with mourners scurrying by. The artist who actually set the model for street photography was Hine, and he's here with work early and late, of Ellis Island refugees, laborers on the job, beggars on the sidewalk. He's one of Kozloff's heroes, and his unsentimental witness _ a blend of Social Gospel faith and there-but-for-the-grace-of-God empathy _ runs like a moral spine through the show. What also runs through it is language: words printed, stenciled, painted and illuminated, on newspapers, billboards, shop signs and theater marquees. Times Square today is a digital babel of nonstop visual chatter, but photography confirms that New York has been talking a blue streak from the get-go, and that much of the talk was sales pitch: buy this, eat that, see such-and-such. Advertisements are in that Hester Street picture. In a 1932 night view of Times Square by Samuel H. Gottscho, Pepsodent and Chevrolet are spelled in huge lights. In a 1950s color photograph by Saul Leiter, barbershop and Coca-Cola signs frame the figure of a tense-looking man who seems as if he might just go off if pushed the wrong way. This picture, by a terrific artist who is not a household name, exemplifies the offbeat character of the show. It also adds to the exhibition's shrewd take on shifts in the American cultural psyche, as reformist figures like Hine were succeeded by a sensationalist like Weegee (Arthur Fellig), who directed a Coney Island beach crowd as if he were Cecil B. DeMille, and by sardonic social guerrillas like Larry Fink. Kozloff annotates his choices with stimulating labels, well worth reading, and one of the best catalog essays I've read all year. Despite the show's complexity, his view never becomes pinched or schematic. His idea about the Jewishness of street photography _ that it lies in seeing the world from the perspective of a displaced minority _ is carefully nuanced. And he follows through on the many threads he spins out. A 1976 image at the end of the exhibition of a child turning midair somersaults on a torn-up mattress on a South Bronx street, by the activist photographer Mel Rosenthal, has a valiant, tough-love tenderness that might have teased a smile out of Hine. Some 60 of Rosenthal's recent photographs are good reasons to see ``A Community of Many Worlds: Arab Americans in New York City'' at the Museum of the City of New York. The show, which examines the history of Arabic-speaking New Yorkers, was in the works as long ago as 1997 and was to open in November. Right after Sept. 11, however, the curators decided to expand and update it and install it in the museum's largest gallery in the spring. Strictly speaking, the results are less a photography exhibition than an illustrated essay. The show follows the movement of new immigrants from countries like Syria, Lebanon, Jordan and Iraq, first to Lower Manhattan and then into the other boroughs. (The area where the World Trade Center once stood was called Little Syria at the turn of the last century.). Despite having Arabic as a common language, the community of the title is a classic study in diversity. It encompasses three major religions _ Christianity, Islam and Judaism _ with Christians in the majority. Professionally, it ranges from chief executives and cooks to physicists and poets. Its span of activities and interests might be described as all-American-plus. All together, the community is an example of yet another nexus of amazing cultural traditions that are integral to the city but remain _ and this is such a New York dynamic _ half hidden. Rosenthal's photographs bring those traditions into view. Girls light candles in St. Mary's Orthodox Church in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn; men and boys pray at the end of Ramadan; a woman named Debbie Almontaser, dressed in a Muslim headcovering, holds a photograph of her son Yousif, a member of the National Guard who went to ground zero on Sept. 11 as part of a rescue team and stayed there for months. While ``A Community of Many Worlds'' was basically in place before 9/11, ``New York, New York: Photographs From the Collection,'' which opens on Tuesday at the Met, was conceived as a response to the events of last fall, in the form of a discreet homage to the city. Organized by Jeff L. Rosenheim, assistant curator in the department of photographs, it is less tightly focused than the other two exhibitions, but it has the oldest work and the kind of powerhouse masterpieces that only the Met can muster from its own holdings. One of them is right in front of you when you walk into the gallery: Edward Steichen's evergreen 1904 image of the Flatiron Building, in a print that came to the museum in 1933 from Alfred Stieglitz's collection. The fare immediately surrounding it is canonical but includes pictures predating the earliest at the Jewish Museum. The treasure _ and the one piece the Met had to borrow _ is an 1853 daguerreotype of a shopping street, identified as Chatham Square in what is now Chinatown. In the mid-19th century, prosperity and poverty rubbed shoulders here, as they always have and still do in the city. One of the missions of street photographers was to point this out. The street in this little picture, though unpaved, looks kempt enough with its shops and awnings. Only one advertisement _ for that indispensable fixture of urban decorum, window shades _ is visible here. But in an 1870s photo nearby of a building on Broadway, shop signs and posters hawking, among many other things, kid gloves and ``illusive wigs'' have taken over the entire facade. Many of these early pictures suggest a New York City that is still rural at heart and holding the full impact of the Industrial Revolution at bay, a town that has a certain swagger but is very much piecing itself together. As time went on, those pieces fell into place and began to stack up and up. And where Kozloff's show keeps its sights on the ground, Rosenheim's heads for the heights. Sometimes we're staring up at those heights, as in Walter Gropius' neck-craning view of the Flatiron. Sometimes we're way up there looking down, as in Berenice Abbott's scintillating ``New York at Night.'' Shot in early evening when the midtown lights had just come on, the city looks as precious as a Christmas display in a Tiffany window and as poetic as Hart Crane's ``immaculate sigh of stars.'' Abbott took the picture in the 1930s, not long after she had returned from living in Paris. So, in a sense, she was a new New Yorker again, and you can imagine her doing a madcap new-New-Yorkerish thing, like dashing to the top of a skyscraper on a cold night with a whisper of snow in the air and waiting in excitement for the city to be exactly what she remembered it being and what she knew it would be again, each time: wondrous. And it was, and it is. EXHIBITION NOTES ``New York: Capital of Photography'' remains at The Jewish Museum, 1109 Fifth Ave., through Sept. 2. ``Community of Many Worlds: Arab Americans in New York City'' remains at The Museum of the City of New York, 1220 Fifth Ave., through Sept. 1. ``New York, New York: Photographs from the Collection'' opens on Tuesday, May 7, at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, 1000 Fifth Ave. (at 82nd St.) and remains on view through Aug. 25. 
