Troops of the British Royal Marines, heavily laden with equipment and their faces blackened with camouflage paint, climbed aboard Chinook helicopters on Thursday at a forward operating base south of Kabul to head into the mountains of southeastern Afghanistan. These men, among the few British troops to see a combat mission since the 1991 Persian Gulf war, are part of what military officials are describing as the largest operation since March against Taliban and al-Qaida forces. They are combing unspecified areas untrodden by troops from the U.S.-led coalition since the war in Afghanistan began with allied bombing of the country, then ruled by the Taliban, last October. ``It is one of the few remaining areas in Afghanistan that has never before been investigated by coalition ground forces,'' said Brig. Roger Lane, commander of British troops at Bagram air base outside Kabul. ``We have good reason to believe that it is, or has been, a key base for the al-Qaida terrorist network.'' According to a pool of British reporters flown to Camp Taylor, the forward operating base whose exact location the British military declined to specify, the marines they saw on Thursday were the rear units of a force of up to 1,000 coalition troops, mainly British, who have begun a major operation in the crags and mountain valleys in the last few days. Four companies of British Royal Marines, together with some American troops and local Afghan units, began deploying quietly four days ago into a mountainous region that they say is a crucial strategic area for Qaida and Taliban forces. Britain has deployed 1,700 marines to Afghanistan over the last month to join the American-led coalition. This British-led operation, called Snipe, will be supported by U.S. air power and U.S. Special Operations troops, according to Maj. Bryan Hilferty, a U.S. military spokesman here. Afghan troops will also be involved, Lane said. ``We have several operations going on,'' Hilferty said. ``Snipe is the bigger one.'' The mission is ambitious: to secure and search the entire area, which is crossed with roads and rough trails, populated by Afghan villages and rising up to high mountain peaks. British officials would not say what intelligence they had on the region or what kind or size of force Qaida or the Taliban might have there. They appear to be playing down any prospect of encountering large numbers of militants, speaking more of finding weapons caches and denying the Taliban and Qaida fighters free run of the territory. ``The success of this operation will not be measured solely in a count of the number of dead terrorists,'' Lane said. ``We will first seek out and destroy all the terrorist infrastructure in this region and, of course, do likewise for any al-Qaida forces that we encounter.'' ``If al-Qaida and Taliban feel they can come in this area to gather intelligence, that's what we're here to prevent,'' said Maj. Gary Green, a commander at the forward operation base quoted in the pool report. Capt. Paul Hoare, another commander at Camp Taylor, said: ``If we don't see anybody, this mission is still a success. It means we've cleared them out. We're denying this as a facility for them. If we deny them that, we've won. ``But there's a real feeling here that it isn't over till it's over,'' he added. ``This is not going to be a short business.'' The soldiers waiting to board Chinooks said they did not know what to expect up in the mountains but voiced respect for the fighting abilities of Afghan guerrillas. ``We are not underestimating them,'' said Sgt. Craig Laird, commander of the mortar section. ``Some of them have had 20 years of fighting experience and you've got to respect that. They are resilient, travel light, move fast and use the terrain well. ``We know we can more than match them though,'' he added. ``Basically we are going forward looking for trouble and when we find it we're going to push straight through it.'' (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS) The terrain is rough, with peaks of 8,000 to 13,000 feet, a spokesman said. The troops have yet to come into contact with any Taliban or Qaida fighters, but the first casualty was brought down on a stretcher to the forward operating base, suffering from acute dehydration. ``This is just an example of the extreme terrain these guys are being asked to operate in,'' said Maj. Geoff Moulton, a British press officer. Soldiers said that in an earlier exercise they had found it took them three to four hours to move 500 yards when carrying their full kit. ``The altitude is a real jolt, but you get used to dealing with it,'' one soldier said. ``You have to move very slowly, maybe taking a break every 200 meters to catch your breath. One minute you are fine, the next your heart is as high as it can get. So you rest, then start all over again.'' The forward base, lying on a barren dusty plain, serves as a refueling place for the helicopters and a base for supplies and ammunition. Every few minutes while reporters were at the camp on Thursday, more helicopters _ pairs of Chinooks _ thundered in to deliver more men and supplies for the battle ahead. Yellow cut-down Land Rovers mounted with machine guns raced backward and forward on the perimeter to check out lone vehicles, and farmers passing with their donkeys. Local villagers and elders had visited the base and told the soldiers about mines in the area, said the soldiers, who handed out water and grain to the local Afghans. 
