Woody Allen once again mines personal experience for his latest movie, ``Hollywood Ending.'' But that vein seems just about tapped out. The story of a once-great maverick filmmaker fallen on hard times who goes psychosomatically blind on the eve of directing his comeback movie, ``Hollywood'' resonates, at least initially, with wry references to Allen's own peculiarly personal career. It has fun with how the artistic dinosaur (played by Allen, and looking every year his age) is hopelessly out of sync with a more corporate and childish contemporary movie business. ``Demographics? You mean why'd the country get so stupid all of a sudden?'' Allen's Val Waxman blurts to a roomful of studio executives in one of the film's handful of sharp and knowing lines. Despite such apostasy, Val -- whose neuroses and pretensions have been getting him fired from even Canadian deodorant commercials lately -- lands the helm of a period gangster film set in his beloved New York. But that's only because his ex-wife, Ellie (Tea Leoni, one of Allen's more chemically balanced leading ladies of recent years), has gone to bat for Val ... and the guy she left him for, Hal (Treat Williams), runs the studio that's producing the picture. Of course, this is a source of much angst and leads to the first indication that Allen intends to work his material too vigorously for its minor comic or character payoffs. Meeting Ellie at a hotel bar, Val tries to professionally discuss his ideas for the film, but can't help flailing off-topic and onto the unfinished business of their marriage. This is funny the first time it happens. By the third round of this seemingly endless scene, however, the joke is stale and our insight into the failed relationship is no deeper. As for the blind director business, that gets old even faster and occupies a much longer chunk of the movie. Since admitting he can't see would be tantamount to professional suicide, Val attempts to call the shots with the surreptitious help of his oily but loyal agent Al (director Mark Rydell in an unexpectedly sparkling turn), the young interpreter for his Chinese cinematographer (Barney Cheng, playing a stereotype but finding an uproariously deadpan tone with which to do so) and, when all else fails, the appalled Ellie. If Woody Allen talking to people while looking the other way and falling down occasionally is your idea of a laugh riot, then this is the movie for you. If you demand a little bit more, especially from a filmmaker of Allen's proven capabilities, well, there's always next year. ``Will &AMP; Grace's'' Debra Messing and ``Beverly Hills 90210's'' Tiffani Thiessen play the movie's age-inappropriate Allen squeezes, respectively a bimbo would-be actress Val lives with and the serial director-bedding star of the film-within-the-film, who gets a profound feeling from the way the blind auteur looks at her. George Hamilton doesn't do much -- perhaps that's the joke? -- as a well-tanned studio functionary who's always hanging around. And oddly enough, that's about as vicious as notoriously anti-Hollywood Allen's latest show-biz satire gets; even wife-stealing vulgarian Hal is basically a nice guy. It's awfully hard to get laughs out of the movie game with the generous kind of spirit Allen displays here, and Woody proves not up to the formidable task. And coming from the guy who's ``Stardust Memories'' remains one of the most biting indictments of the film scene and an artist's contradictions ever made, ``Hollywood Ending'' feels like the work of someone who may indeed have finally aged past his prime ... and, perhaps more than he realizes, just wants to be liked by the people who can still give him work. --- HOLLYWOOD ENDING (2 stars) (Rated PG-13: language, drug use) -Starring: Woody Allen, Tea Leoni, Mark Rydell, Debra Messing, George Hamilton, Treat Williams, Tiffani Thiessen. -Director: Woody Allen. -Running time: 1 hr. 54 min. 
