For Release Thursday AMS, May 2, 2002 	The Boston Globe plans to move the following stories for use by NYTimes News Service clients.  For questions about stories, please call Jean Conley at the Boston Globe, 617-929-2597. For individual purchase of budgeted graphics or photos please call 212-556-4204 or 888-603-1036. 	All stories will bear the BOS designator. 	INTERNATIONAL (i) 	MIDEAST-BETHLEHEM (Bethlehem, West Bank) - Shooting erupts and fire breaks out at the Church of the Nativity. By Charles Sennott. dvlpg. 	MIDEAST-PRISONERS (Ramallah, West Bank) _ Six Palestinian prisoners wanted by Israel left Palestinian President Yasser Arafat's headquarters after they were handed over to U.S. and British officials. The handover opened the way for Israel to lift a month-old siege of Arafat's headquarters in the West Bank city of Ramallah. By Charles Sennott. 1300 words. 	MIDEAST-ANNAN (United Nations) _ Kofi Annan abandons efforts to send a fact-finding mission to the Jenin refugee camp after Israel first gave a green light but later said mission members were biased. In a letter to the U.N. Security Council, he said the team would be disbanded Thursday. By Elizabeth Neuffer. 1100 words. 	NATIONAL (a) 	IMMIGRATION-VISAS (Washington) _ Vidya Iyer and her husband are expecting their first child in June. That's the happy news for the Iyers, who live in Massachusetts. And it's happy news for the relatives in the Bombay region of southern India. All along, she has been expecting help from her own mother. But Vidya is now worried that her mother, set to make the long, expensive trip this month, will have to return far sooner than the six month time period the family had been planning on because of a proposed rule change by the INS that would limit the time visitors can stay in the US on tourist and business visas. By Wayne Washington. 1000 words. 	RAT-COMPUTER (New York) _ Neuroscientists announced that they have wired a computer chip directly into the brain of a rat, creating the world's first radio controlled animal. The rat wears a small antenna and a backpack that translates a radio signal into electrical pulses applied to select areas of the brain. By Gareth Cook 1100 words. 	AIDS-MINORITIES (undated) _ African-Americans, Latinos, and people with HMO insurance are less likely to be invited into HIV clinical trials, even when comparing people of similar education and background across race and insurance type. The study, by Rand Corporation in today's New England Journal of Medicine, suggests minorities are under-represented in clinical research. By Steve Smith. 900 words. 	FINANCIAL (f) 	HEWLETT-COMPAQ (undated) _ The court decision paving the way for Hewlett-Packard to acquire Compaq was a personal triumph for Carly Fiorina, who faced intense opposition from the company's heirs. Fiorina deftly fended off a challenge that at first seemed destined to scuttle the merger. But some wonder whether the long controversy might yet tarnish her reputation. By Diane Lewis. 1000 words. 	CISCO-HAMMER (undated) _ After a long drought of local telecom deals, Cisco Systems announce it is buying Hammerhead Networks of Billerica, Mass., for $175 million and Lucent Technologies said it sold its Marlborough-based distributed network control platform unit, with 150 people, to a private equity firm in Los Angeles that will run it as a stand-alone business and sell stuff back to Lucent. By Peter Howe. 800 words. 	SPORTS (s) 	BBA-REDSOX (Undated) _ Red Sox against Baltimore in Boston. By Nick Cafardo. 	MACMULLAN-COLUMN (Undated) _ Jackie MacMullan at the Red Sox game. 	The Boston Globe 
