American Roman Catholics say that priests who sexually abuse children and teen-agers should be barred from participating in parish life, and that any accusations of abuse should be investigated by local law enforcement rather than the church, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll. While church leaders who met in Rome last week appeared divided over how to handle cases of abuse that occurred in the past _ that is, whether to apply a ``zero tolerance'' policy to all offenders, future and past _ American Catholics showed few signs of ambivalence. Nearly 8 in 10 said that a past abuser should be barred from parish life even if ``church leaders believe he is truly sorry for what happened.'' Seventy percent said that Catholic lay people should be involved in decisions about cases of sexual abuse by priests, not just clergymen. ``We have children and can identify with those families that are being hurt by these actions,'' said Helen Crowley, 73, of Pittsburgh. Nearly half of the Catholics polled saw ``some'' progress in last week's meeting of American cardinals at the Vatican _ 13 percent saw ``a lot'' _ but there were signs of continuing, deep discontent. Indeed, the poll, conducted Sunday through Wednesday, indicates a striking breach between American Catholics and their leadership on these issues. It also suggests that the scandal is taking a toll on the image of Pope John Paul II in the twilight of his papacy, which began in 1978. Fifty-three percent of American Catholics said they have a favorable view of the pope _ a drop of 16 percentage points from a CBS News poll conducted two weeks earlier, before the American cardinals were called to the Vatican to deal with the issue. The nationwide poll interviewed 1,172 adults by telephone, including 433 Catholics. It has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points for all adults and 5 percentage points for Catholics. The poll was conducted in the aftermath of a two-day emergency meeting at the Vatican on the question of sexual abuse, at which American cardinals and leaders of the bishops conference suggested they would move toward a policy of ``zero tolerance'' for future offenders. But they appeared to be divided over whether all past offenders should also be automatically removed, or dealt with on a case-by-case basis. On many questions in the poll Catholic opinion matched or paralleled that of the total American public. For instance, 62 percent of Catholics said that American Catholic leaders did a poor job of handling the scandal. Sixty-one percent of the total American public held the same view. But on a few topics Catholics and the total American public expressed contrasting opinions, mostly those with which Catholics have the benefit of greater familiarity, while non-Catholics are responding as outsiders. For example, only 28 percent of Catholics said that celibacy increased the likelihood of priests abusing minors, while 49 percent of the total public took that view. Nearly half of the Catholics surveyed said that the pope has done a poor job handling the problem of sexual abuse of children and teen-agers in the church, and 48 percent said they believed he knew about the problem all along. While 71 percent of Catholics said they felt that the pope and other church leaders ``took the issue seriously enough'' when they met in Rome, 58 percent of Catholics said the pope, in general, should have done more to address the problem. There was much ambivalence: ``I think the pope represents well the philosophies and the goals of Roman Catholics, but I think he's behind the times with the sexual abuse cases,'' said Steven Clay, 55, of Lansdowne, Pa. ``I think he was out of touch or put out of touch by people who shelter him.'' Discontent was also voiced about American church leaders; a majority of Catholic respondents said they thought those leaders had done a poor job. Asked if those leaders had gone far enough in publicly apologizing to the victims of cleric abuse, nearly 6 in 10 said they had not. Poll respondents generally said that the problem of sexual abuse of children and teen-agers is as common in other walks of life as it is in the priesthood. A majority of those polled also said that the problem is limited to ``a few or hardly any priests'' _ a position held by most Catholics, as well. While most of those Catholics surveyed have no opinion of Cardinal Bernard F. Law of the Boston Archdiocese, now under the most fire for his handling of these cases, those who did were overwhelmingly negative. In contrast, Catholics voiced high levels of trust and confidence in their own parish priests, and said the scandal had not affected their attendance at Mass or their contributions. Most Catholics said they still feel comfortable around their parish priest and most _ including the mothers of young children _ said they would have no trepidation about leaving their child alone with him. (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.) Most Catholics also said they believe their priest is in touch with the needs of modern Catholics _ 65 percent, compared to 40 percent who felt that way about church leaders; men felt particularly attuned with their parish priest. While a majority of Catholics said the pope was more conservative than they are on issues of personal morality, a majority said their parish priest felt about the same as they did on these issues. A majority also said that if their son or daughter expressed an interest in becoming a priest or a nun, they would encourage the child to do so. The scandal, in fact, highlighted the complicated attitudes American Catholics have toward their church, and the gap in trust between the parish and the hierarchy. For example, 63 percent of Catholics said their priest had done a good job in dealing with the sexual abuse issue; 49 percent said their local bishop had done a good job, and 27 percent said the American leaders of the Catholic church had done a good job. For all the debate over the question, many Catholics resist connecting the current scandal to homosexuality in the priesthood. A majority said they did not believe that the presence of homosexuals in the church increased the likelihood of sexual abuse, as some church leaders have suggested. A majority of Catholics also said they did not believe that there were more homosexuals in the priesthood than in other walks of life, another point of debate in recent weeks. But American Catholics were divided over whether a gay man should be ordained at all, even if he remains celibate. Men were more likely than women to oppose their ordination, and Catholics older than 64 more likely to oppose it than younger people. In contrast, American Catholics were overwhelmingly in favor of allowing priests to marry: More than 7 in 10 supported a married priesthood, up from about half who felt that way 30 years ago. ``We had an exceptional priest for eight years and he left the priesthood because he wanted to get married,'' said Melanie Baldwin, a 40-year-old teacher from Durango, Colo. ``We lost a great man to marriage who had been a priest for 20 years. I support priests marrying because I think it would bring better quality men into the priesthood.'' But 6 in 10 Catholics surveyed said they did not believe that celibacy was a cause of the sexual abuse problem. Catholics also overwhelmingly supported the ordination of women; more than 6 in 10 said they supported women priests, up from more than half who supported the idea in 1987, when the Times/CBS News poll first asked that question. As reflected in previous polls, Catholics disagree with the church's position on artificial methods of birth control: 71 percent said they favored it, while the church forbids it. Other areas of disagreement include the death penalty, which is opposed by the church yet supported by most American Catholics. Catholic women seemed particularly concerned about the victims of sexual abuse. When asked whether American cardinals were more concerned about the priests, the victims, or equally concerned about both, 40 percent of the women said they thought the cardinals' concern was more with the priests, compared to 26 percent of the men. 
