The Montreal Expos began their expected farewell stop in Houston on Tuesday night by offering a ``how to'' clinic. How to convert two leadoff walks into runs in the first two innings. How to properly bunt runners over. How to execute a suicide squeeze. And last, but not least, how to ride the arm of your ace. Righthander Javier Vazquez pitched a five-hitter as the surprising Expos capped off the second-best opening month in franchise history with a 5-1 victory before 28,178 at Astros Field. Its future uncertain as a candidate for contraction after this season, Montreal finished 16-10 in April, falling one victory shy of the club record set in April 1996. The Expos remained tied for first place in the National League East, the latest they've led the division since May 19, 1996. ``They have a good team. They aren't surprising anybody,'' Astros second baseman Craig Biggio said. ``They know how to play the game. They are playing the game fundamentally. They did all the things right.'' The Astros had their modest two-game winning streak snapped and finished 11-14 during their first month under new manager Jimy Williams. They can blame Vazquez. The 25-year-old righthander allowed only five hits, mixing a curveball in the mid-70s, a changeup in the low 80s and a fastball that was still clocked at 93 mph in the ninth inning. He struck out nine _ four coming in the eighth and ninth innings _ and did not walk a batter. It was the first victory of the season for Vazquez (1-1) in six starts. ``He pitched what I call a clean game,'' Expos manager Frank Robinson said. ``There were no walks, he kept the runners on base, and he kept the pitch count in his favor. He was sharp and able to get all of his pitches in the strike zone.'' The heart of the Astros' batting order _ Jeff Bagwell, Lance Berkman and Richard Hidalgo _ went a combined 0-for-12 with four strikeouts. The Astros avoided their second shutout in four games when Morgan Ensberg doubled with two outs in the seventh and scored on Julio Lugo's single. ``When it's your night, it's your night,'' Biggio said of Vazquez. ``We've come across some tough pitchers. You have to take the good with the bad. When you are winning ballgames, nothing really sticks out; you overlook some things. When you're losing games, a lot of things stick out that people want to pick on.'' Astros righthander Roy Oswalt (3-1), known for his control, started the first two innings with walks, both resulting in runs. Oswalt was tagged for a season-high five runs and eight hits in seven innings. His ERA jumped from 1.91 to 2.70. Oswalt hadn't allowed more than three earned runs in five previous starts this season. The Expos surpassed that by the fourth inning en route to a 5-0 lead. His one strikeout tied his career low as a starter. ``I couldn't get the ball by them,'' Oswalt said. ``It seemed like everything I threw up there, they were swinging real aggressively.'' Oswalt walked Orlando Cabrera to begin the second inning, and Michael Barrett reached on a fielder's choice when Bagwell couldn't get the lead runner at second base. Two batters later, Vazquez failed to lay down a bunt with one strike. Anticipating another bunt attempt, Bagwell charged home plate, only to see Vazquez swing away and send a pitch down the right-field line, scoring Cabrera from second base. The next batter, Peter Bergeron, perfectly executed a suicide squeeze to give the Expos a 3-0 lead. Bergeron added an RBI single in the fourth, and Jose Vidro tripled in a run in the seventh. That was more than enough run support for Vazquez, who had pitched eight and nine innings, respectively, in his last two starts but failed to get a victory. Vazquez has allowed only four earned runs in his last 26 innings, a 1.38 ERA. ``That's just what this team needed,'' Robinson said. ``He's the leader of this pitching staff. It just shows what I've been preaching _ that it takes a team effort, good starters, the bullpen. We've been winning, and our No. 1 guy didn't have a victory.'' After allowing a double to Brad Ausmus in the first inning, Vazquez retired 13 of the next 14 batters. Daryle Ward managed a single in the second inning, extending his hitting streak to a career-high 15 games. Vazquez retired the final seven batters he faced, including Ward on a called third strike to end the game. With the exception of Ward, who is hitting .446 during his current streak, and Ensberg (.308 in his last seven games), the Astros are in a teamwide offensive funk. ``The feeling going into the game was 2-1 or 1-0 could win because of the two guys hooking up,'' Bagwell said. ``Down 3-0, I still thought we had a chance. He (Vazquez) is tough to beat.'' 
