Teachers at Stonegate Elementary School know what to expect when they ask Tom Vastine how he's doing: a smile and a reply of ``I'm blessed.'' The 90-year-old widower volunteers at least three days a week in the school's kindergarten classes, helping children struggling to read, making photocopies _ anything that's needed. Teachers cannot say enough about the help that Vastine provides. But Vastine says they're doing him a favor by letting him spend his retirement at Stonegate. ``It's so much fun,'' he said. ``I love them all.'' School officials tried to pay back some that love by successfully nominating him for a state honor. Vastine will be one of 15 volunteers in Texas to receive a ``Heroes for Children'' award Friday in Austin. The State Board of Education members select winners twice a year. Recipients' names are engraved on a plaque at the William B. Travis State Office Building in Austin. Vastine scruntches his nose and shakes his head when he hears he's being called a hero. ``The real heroes are the teachers. I admire their patience,'' he said. Those in the Hurst-Euless-Bedford school district are amazed at Vastine's energy, enthusiasm and humility. ``He's 90 years old, and he gets up every day and comes to school with a smile on his face,'' said Sheri Willis, one of Stonegate's three kindergarten teachers. ``Hero is probably the best word to describe him. He's one of a kind. He's an inspiration.'' The 5- and 6-year-olds appreciate his other abilities, such as his knack for coloring well and giving warm hugs. ``He's really sweet and he's really nice to me. He makes me so happy,'' said Dai'ja Farmer, 6. It's all about building the children's confidence, Vastine said. Before he retired, Vastine spent 42 years interpreting seismograph results to help Gulf Oil choose favorable spots to drill for oil, a career that doesn't allow many opportunities to work with children. Vastine bought his Bedford home when he retired in 1975 because it was within walking distance from the elementary school. He had to ``drop out'' for a few years in the mid-1990s to take care of his wife of 66 1/2 years, who died in 2000. They had four children, one of whom died last month. Vastine has been a staple at the school for so long that he's now working with the children of his past students. One of his goals is to get down to the students' level and to blend in with the class. ``I love Mr. Vastine because he's a great student. A great friend _ I mean,'' said Lainessa Mason, 5. The early school years are so formative that more retired people should invest their time helping the children, Vastine said. But Vastine said he's still not sure about this `hero' business. ``I don't consider myself a hero. I consider it a privilege to be able to come in here and help,'' he said. ``I'm blessed.'' (Visit the Star-Telegram's online services on the World Wide Web: www.star-telegram.com) nn 
