Mike Mussina is sometimes arrogant, sometimes aloof. He would rather study a crossword puzzle for an hour than have a conversation with a reporter for a few minutes. He is happier uncorking 100 draining pitches than detailing why he threw one of them in a certain situation. He is content to hang with himself. Mussina is a calm, subdued competitor, someone who rarely allows anyone other than his closest friends to know what he is feeling or thinking. It makes him the type of person you do not want to sit beside on a cross-country flight, unless you have a 500-page book, a stack of compact discs or sleeping pills. But these distinct personality traits have also helped make Mussina a tremendous pitcher. He is arrogant because he is confident that he can outwit most batters. He is aloof because he does not care about what does not impact him. He is relaxed yet pushy because he has prepared himself to succeed on the mound. Again and again. ``He's mild mannered; he's Clark Kent,'' said his teammate David Wells. ``When it's time to do the job, he's Superman.'' The Oakland Athletics tugged on Superman's cape Wednesday night as they slapped Mussina around and beat the Yankees, 4-1, at Yankee Stadium. Mussina fought to find a semblance of consistency with his repertory, but he was fortunate to limit the A's to three earned runs in seven innings. Oakland had at least one baserunner in five of those innings and conquered Mussina for the second time in seven days. Analyze and dissect Mussina and, even if he is usually his own best friend and even if he lost his second straight start, he is still a winner. It does not take an incredible effort to be amiable. Mike Piazza and Jason Giambi are routinely friendly, and both are bigger stars than Mussina. This is not an alibi for Mussina's behavior, just a way of explaining that he has evolved into a potential Hall of Fame pitcher by doing things his ornery way. Mussina is in his second year with the Yankees and is more comfortable in New York, but do not expect any Oprah moments from him. In his own way, Mussina has made New York a convenient place by ignoring anything that might disrupt him. His manager, Joe Torre, says, ``you bite off what you want to in this town,'' and Mussina only nibbles. ``He's tough, in a good way,'' catcher Jorge Posada said. ``He's tough on himself. He's tough on everybody else, but it's in a good way. It keeps him going. It keeps him as good as he is.'' Obviously, the Yankees do not care if Mussina has lunch with his teammates, organizes the Kentucky Derby pool or frequents trendy spots in Manhattan. They only care that he uses his talent, intelligence and resolve to continue performing in the same consistent way he has since joining them. Roger Clemens won the Cy Young Award with a 20-3 record and a 3.51 earned run average in 2001, but Mussina (17-11, 3.15) was the steadier pitcher. He is 3-2 with a 3.73 ERA this year. ``Moose and Rocket are 1-2,'' Posada said. ``If those guys go down, we go down with them.'' The Yankees have a five-man rotation that stretches seven deep. While Mussina does not have the best statistics, he is probably the most dependable starter. Clemens is 39 years old. Wells is less than a year removed from back surgery. Andy Pettitte has elbow tendinitis and will miss at least a month. Orlando Hernandez was hampered by a tender elbow. That leaves the durable Mussina as a fortress. When this was relayed to Torre, he agreed. ``No question, he's indispensable,'' he said. ``We need him to be the rock during this whole thing.'' Even though Wells was Mussina's teammate with the Baltimore Orioles in 1996 and has been his teammate with the Yankees since spring training, Wells admitted the two pitchers have never shared a meal. Wells seemed amused and amazed by Mussina's mellow demeanor, saying, ``Just to have a conversation with him, it's pretty short all the time.'' Posada imitated the way Mussina jerks his head back after a poor pitch, almost punishing himself. When Posada went to dinner with Mussina at a steak house in San Francisco last year, Posada said Mussina ordered an iced tea. But Mussina thought too much ice was crammed into the glass and confronted the waiter. ``He asked if he could have some iced tea with his ice,'' Posada said, laughing. ``He's very demanding about everything. All pitchers are demanding, but I think Moose is more demanding than anyone.'' So the demanding Mussina could not have been happy about putting the Yankees in a 3-0 ditch by the third inning Wednesday night. Two setbacks to the A's are distressing for Mussina, especially because they are the only losses the Yankees have to Oakland in five games. Torre said Mussina is ``so proud of what he does out there'' and the Yankees need Mussina to do it well, even while it means being himself. 
