A new, more serious homicide charge, aggravated manslaughter, was filed Wednesday against the former New Jersey Nets star Jayson Williams in the fatal shooting of a chauffeur at Williams' country estate. A Hunterdon County grand jury charged Wednesday that Williams' actions in the death of the driver, Costas Christofi, 55, had shown ``extreme indifference to human life,'' the prerequisite for aggravated manslaughter, said the acting county prosecutor, Steven C. Lember. The charge carries a penalty of 10 to 30 years in prison. Before the grand jury handed up its nine-count indictment Wednesday, the most serious charge against Williams had been manslaughter, which is legally defined as recklessly causing the death of another person. It has a sentence of 5 to 10 years. During a news conference at the county courthouse, Lember declined to discuss the evidence that prompted the grand jury to return the aggravated manslaughter charge after a one-day hearing on Tuesday. He said the original manslaughter charge was filed ``very early'' in the investigation, on Feb. 25, and noted then that the inquiry was continuing. After Lember's news conference, Williams' lawyer, Joseph A. Hayden, called the death of Christofi a ``tragic accident.'' He said Williams had not committed a crime. ``We're pleased we can go to trial and the truth can be revealed and the rumors can be put aside,'' Hayden said. Christofi was killed on Feb. 14 in a bedroom at Williams' 65-acre estate in Alexandria Township after he had driven Williams and several friends there from a charity basketball game in Bethlehem, Pa. Christofi was struck in the chest by a blast from a double-barreled 12-gauge shotgun, the authorities have said. The indictment also charged Williams, 34, with aggravated assault for pointing the gun at or toward Christofi, said Lember, the prosecutor. He refused to say Wednesday if new evidence from Kent Culuko, a friend of Williams', helped persuade the grand jury to return the aggravated assault and aggravated manslaughter charges. Culuko, 29, of Mahwah, N.J., was at the Williams home at the time of the shooting. In a plea deal last week, he pleaded guilty to tampering with witnesses and evidence, in what was called a cover-up to absolve Williams and make it appear that Christofi had shot himself. 
