It's hard to imagine a Kentucky Derby without trainers D. Wayne Lukas and Bob Baffert. They have won the race six times between them, with five of those victories coming in the 1990s. During Derby week, they are the most visible trainers on the backside, holding court each day. But the unthinkable almost happened. Until three weeks ago, Baffert didn't have a Derby horse. Lukas was on the outside looking in until two weeks ago. ``You guys knew I would find a way to get here,'' Baffert said. ``(The Derby) is too much fun to miss.'' So when the 20-horse field was drawn Wednesday, Baffert and Lukas were the centers of attention once again, and horse racing's two most prominent trainers were well-represented. Baffert will have two horses in the race _ War Emblem, which is 20-1 in the morning line, and long shot Danthebluegrassman, 50-1 in the morning line. War Emblem will break from the fifth post, while Danthebluegrassman is in post No. 17. Lukas will have Proud Citizen breaking from post 13 at 30-1. As expected, Harlan's Holiday was made the favorite at 9-2, the highest morning-line price in Derby history. Other favorites include Came Home and Buddha at 5-1 and Medaglia d'Oro and Johannesburg at 6-1. Baffert won the Derby in 1997 with Silver Charm and in '98 with Real Quiet. He had last year's favorite, Point Given, who finished fifth before bouncing back to easily win the Preakness and Belmont Stakes. ``This is where we want to be,'' Baffert said. ``This is what we aim for all year.'' After the Santa Anita Derby on April 2, Baffert appeared to be nowhere. Danthebluegrassman, his last Derby hope, finished eighth. However, Baffert found new life when The Thoroughbred Corp., which campaigned Point Given last year, paid a reported $1 million for War Emblem after he won the Illinois Derby on April 6. The Thouroughbred Corp, owned by Prince Ahmed Salman of Saudia Arabia, sent the colt to Baffert to prepare for the Derby. ``I'm happy to have him,'' Baffert said. ``It's a little different when you develop a horse yourself, but this is a talented guy. ``I'm going to do the best three-week training job in the history of the world.'' As it turned out, Baffert had a bit of an ace in the hole. The surprise entry of Danthebluegrassman caught Churchill Downs officials off-guard Wednesday, because Baffert had never mentioned the horse as a possibility. Because it was a full field, his entry meant Windward Passage, trained by Steve Asmussen, was excluded from the field. ``The Santa Anita race was a throw-out,'' Baffert said. ``We brought him to Churchill, and he flourished. We didn't say anything about him because we didn't want to bug anybody. He worked Tuesday (six furlongs in 1:11.80) with `Chop Chop' (Jorge) Chavez riding. After the work, Chop Chop came back and said, `Is this horse in the Derby?' Chop Chop loved the way he worked, so we figured why not? A lot of my second-stringers have beaten my first-stringers, so we thought we'd take a shot.'' Mike Pegram, Danthebluegrassman's owner, won the Derby with Real Quiet and had an influence in running Danthebluegrassman. Baffert, who has won six Triple Crown races since 1997, believes the horse belongs. ``Mike likes to take a chance,'' Baffert said. ``His races before the Santa Anita Derby were pretty good. He likes the surroundings here. Why not run him?'' Kent Desormeaux, who was aboard Real Quiet when he won the Derby, will ride Danthebluegrassman. War Emblem will be ridden by Victor Espinoza, third in last year's Derby on Congaree. If Baffert is to win his third Derby, it likely will be with War Emblem. A confirmed front-runner, he will break from post No. 5 on Saturday and is expected to be the pacesetter. ``He's really an impressive horse,'' Baffert said. ``He's been very aggressive in his workouts since we got him, and I expect him to run well. I think they both will.'' Lukas, like Baffert, was out of the Derby until Proud Citizen went wire-to-wire to win the Lexington Stakes at Keeneland. Despite the fact Proud Citizen had not won since a maiden victory at Saratoga in June 2001, Lukas said he thought the horse would be a Derby contender all along. ``I've always thought he was a Derby horse,'' Lukas said. ``We were a little behind with him, but he's caught up fast.'' Despite the long odds, Lukas has taken this path before. In 1999, Charismatic won the Lexington before going on to win the Derby and Preakness. ``This horse isn't quite as accomplished as Charismatic was,'' Lukas said. ``But he's got a lot of talent. I think it would be a mistake to ignore him.'' Lukas has entered a record 38 Derby starters. He had a Derby entrant for 20 consecutive years until he was shut out last year, and he has 13 victories in Triple Crown races. ``The Derby is a race everyone wants to run in,'' Lukas said. ``Our owners want to be here, and we want to win.'' The odds might indicate none of these horses will get to the finish line first. But Lukas says the morning line means nothing. ``We've made a living running horses in races where people thought we didn't belong,'' he said. ``I think we belong.'' Especially at the Derby. 
