Democrats hoping to invalidate a Republican-friendly congressional map won the right Wednesday to attack it in state as well as federal court. In an unexpected move, Miami federal Judge Adalberto Jordan sent the challenge filed by Florida's three black members of Congress back to circuit court in Broward County _ despite the objections of Republicans who argued that a state court has no jurisdiction over congressional districts. Democratic Congress members Corrine Brown of Jacksonville, Carrie Meek of Miami and Alcee Hastings of Miramar had asked Jordan to send the case back to Broward because they only wish to argue that the new map violates state constitutional guarantees, not federal. ``We're pleased, but not surprised,'' said Gerald Hebert, the Alexandria, Va., lawyer who has handled redistricting cases for Democrats all over the country and is now representing the trio. He said the political ``gerrymandering'' that took place in other states ``paled'' in comparison to what happened in Florida, where GOP lawmakers drew a map likely to send 17 Republicans and eight Democrats to the U.S. House of Representatives, even though the state itself is split 50-50 between the two parties. ``It's as if the Republicans in Florida said that Republican voters get two votes and Democratic voters get one vote,'' Hebert said. Democrats, who could have filed suit anywhere in the state, chose Broward County, where Democrats dominate local politics. Republicans Wednesday continued to insist that the case did not belong in the hands of a Broward judge. ``We still believe it's a federal issue,'' said Jim Scott, a former senator from Fort Lauderdale who is now representing that chamber. Scott added that he did not know whether and to whom Republicans might appeal Jordan's decision. It was not certain Wednesday when a state court trial would be set. The qualifying period for federal candidates is the second week of July, while the period for state candidates is the third week of July. The three-judge panel that will hear the federal challenge against the map Wednesday continued to push for a June 3 trial, rejecting requests from a roomful of lawyers on both sides for extensions of various deadlines. ``This court is going to move forward,'' said Gerald Tjoflat, a member of the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals who is heading the panel. S.V Date writes for The Palm Beach (Florida) Post. Email: svdate(at)pbpost.com Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
