Brazil's largest beverage company agreed on Thursday to acquire a stake in Argentina's leading brewery and signaled that it wanted to take control of the company. The move represents a rare vote of confidence in the eventual recovery of Argentina's stalled economy. Under the deal, the Brazilian firm, Companhia de Bebidas das Americas, known as Ambev, said it would transfer its existing businesses in four countries _ Argentina, Bolivia, Paraguay and Uruguay _ to the Argentine company, Quilmes Industrial, known as Quinsa. Then, Ambev will pay $346 million to the Bemberg family, which controls Quinsa, for a 37.7 percent stake. Ambev said it planned to gradually take control of Quinsa over the next seven years by allowing shareholders in the Argentine company to swap their stock for shares in Ambev. When the deal is completed, Ambev will have solidified its hold on its home market and taken a leading position in four other South American countries. The deal is the first significant foreign investment in an Argentine company since the breakdown of the Argentine peso's peg to the U.S. dollar amid a worsening economic crisis at the beginning of the year. But beyond its symbolic importance, the deal is expected to have little impact in Argentina, several analysts said. In fact, not much of the money Ambev is paying for its stake in Quinsa may even reach Argentina. The sellers, the Bemberg family, live mainly in Europe, said Francisco Chevez, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney in New York. Quinsa's corporate home is in Luxembourg, and its shares are listed there and on the New York Stock Exchange. Investment banking fees related to the deal will go to two large international firms: Goldman, Sachs, which advised Quinsa, and Lazard Freres, which advised Ambev. ``Argentina doesn't benefit from this much at all,'' Chevez said. More important, perhaps, than where the purchase money goes is where Ambev's attention is focused. With a few notable exceptions, Brazil's biggest companies have preferred to concentrate on the large internal market at home rather than seek opportunities in neighboring nations. ``This is a strategic move for a top Brazilian company that wants more influence not just in Argentina but in other South American countries,'' said Rafael Ber of Argentine Research, an economic analysis firm in Buenos Aires. ``It's a natural facet of Brazil's evolution into a more important regional player.'' The deal is expected to be welcomed by those betting on a recovery, even if a slow and modest one, in Argentina. One hope analysts hold out for the country is the development of an acquisition spree by profitable, well-financed Brazilian companies taking advantage of the sharp fall in the peso to pick up assets at bargain prices. Before that can happen, however, Brazilian companies will need a clearer picture of the Argentine economy, which analysts predict will contract by 10 to 12 percent this year, and how individual industries and companies will be affected. For example, Quinsa has been able to honor its obligations throughout the crisis, while several other large Argentine companies have defaulted on their debts. On Thursday, even as Ambev was announcing its plans to invest in Quinsa, another large Brazilian company, the food processor Sadia S.A., said it was pulling out of Argentina. Luiz Murat, the chief financial officer, told reporters in Sao Paulo that Sadia was no longer being paid by its Argentine customers, and that it was laying off four-fifths of its workers there, retaining only a small sales staff. Analysts said Ambev had already been doing fairly well in Argentina, with a 17 percent share of the beer market there, accounting for about 3 percent of Ambev's total sales. The company has been slowly developing markets for its beer brands, including Brahma, and soft drinks like Guarana Antarctic outside Brazil. 
