Congressional lawmakers, including a senior Republican leader, vowed Wednesday to save the Army's controversial Crusader howitzer from the budget axe as reports ricocheted around Capitol Hill that Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld wants to cancel plans to buy the big gun. Rep. J.C. Watts, R-Okla., the fourth ranking House Republican, issued a statement saying he would vigorously oppose any move to kill plans to buy the cannon. ``I am prepared to use the full force and every resource of my office to make sure our soldiers have the tools needed to win _ not just to play a good game. The Crusader is critical to our U.S. Army and artillerymen,'' Watts said in a statement. Sen. James Inhofe, R-Okla., said he would seek to overturn any decision to eliminate the Crusader. ``The fight for Crusader will continue in Congress. It has strong support among both Republicans and Democrats. I plan to work through the authorization and appropriations process to ensure that it remains fully funded,'' Inhofe said in a statement. Watts, Inhofe and other Oklahoma lawmakers have traditionally backed the Crusader, which will be assembled in Elgin, Okla. The howitzer's cannon is to be made at the Watervliet Arsenal near Albany, N.Y. United Defense Ltd., of Arlington, Va., is the manufacturer. The weapon currently in under development and the Army on Feb. 4 provided United Defense a $78 million down payment for Crusader prototypes. The Army plans to buy 480 Crusaders to replace aging inventories of the M109A6 Paladin 155mm self-propelled howitzers. Unlike the Paladin, the Crusader is to be a completely automated system, and require fewer people to operate and service. The Crusader consists of two vehicles _ a self-propelled 155mm howitzer and a supply vehicle that carries spare ammunition and fuel. Army officials say that when fielded in 2008, the howitzer will be the most sophisticated and accurate in the world, capable of firing 12 rounds of 100-pound projectiles per minute over 25 miles. Together, the two Crusader vehicles will weigh around 80 tons while the Paladin weighs around 32 tons. In putting together long-term defense budgets and strategy, Rumsfeld has ordered the military services to examine alternatives to several costly weapons projects, including the Crusader. As a result of those deliberations, congressional aides said Paul Wolfowitz, the deputy secretary of defense, had notified Army Secretary Thomas White on Wednesday that he was to eliminate almost all procurement funds for the weapon. ``It is being mothballed to the point that it is effectively atrophied and cancelled,'' said one congressional aide. ``There's no doubt in our minds that it has been effectively cancelled.'' ``The Army is in a full panic,'' said the aide. Asked whether he has ordered Crusader cancelled, Rumsfeld declined to say. ``Consultations are, in fact, taking place with a variety of different people,'' he said. Doug Coffey, a spokesman for United Defense, said his company has not received notification that the program was killed. ``I wouldn't necessarily jump to the conclusion that it's any more imminent now than it has ever been,'' he said, adding that all the discussion of canceling the weapons was puzzling. ``Crusader is one of the few defense programs that is on schedule, on budget and performing to requirements and meets a demand that the Army has,'' he said. The Crusader has been considered vulnerable to cuts or cancellation in large part because of Rumsfeld's stated goal of transforming the military into a faster, more mobile fighting force. Michael Vickers, a former Army officer and analyst at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessment, a non-partisan defense think-tank, said the Crusader is a highly capable piece of artillery _ if the goal is to prepare to fight a large-scale land war. The last major land war was in 1991 against Iraq, over a decade ago. ``It is a good artillery system, but designed for the Cold War,'' Vickers said. However, in the likely scenarios for future battles _ such as anti-terrorism operations that require rapid deployment abroad in hard-to-get-to places _ ``it is very bad,'' Vickers said. John Hillen, a former Army tank officer and adviser to then-Texas Gov. George Bush on defense issues, said, ``We keep saying that we need a lighter Army, one we can send quickly in light, agile packages to a place likes Afghanistan on little or no notice,'' said Hillen. ``But that means we need a different set of capabilities'' than the Crusader, which are ``heavy and big.'' 
