ATTENTION EDITORS: This article from the NEWHOUSE NEWS SERVICE report of TUESDAY, APRIL 30, 2002, is available as a ``separate buy.'' For information about purchasing the article, contact DEBRA WEYDERT of The New York Times Syndicate at 732-390-4480; fax, 732-390-4697; e-mail, weyded(at)nytimes.com Art advisory: With graphic showing increasing out-of-pocket spending and decreasing number of workers per Medicare beneficiary For information about purchasing art call 202-383-7824 Two optional trims to 1,000 words By MILES BENSON c.2002 Newhouse News Service WASHINGTON _ If there is a more threatening fiscal problem than Social Security it is Medicare, the federal program that helps pay medical costs for the disabled and most Americans after age 65. Even so, the Bush administration's recent decision to effectively add benefits for patients with Alzheimer's disease, along with the prescription drug benefit now under consideration in Congress, would drive costs higher in a program many analysts already believe is unsustainable. So would providing the same benefits for mental disabilities as for physical ailments, as some lawmakers advocate. But with members of Congress running for re-election, the more difficult decisions about structural reform _ raising taxes, cutting spending or both _ are likely to be deferred. President Bush this week said he favored parity for mental treatments in private health insurance plans, and the White House said the president wants to modernize Medicare to offer the same coverage that private plans do. Like many private health plans, Medicare now covers 50 percent of costs for mental treatment, compared to 80 percent for other ailments. Meanwhile, Medicare costs are growing faster than Social Security's. Reasons include the persistent high rate of inflation in the economy's health care sector, the proliferation of new and expensive medical services, and the growing number of beneficiaries entitled to those services as the population ages. This fiscal year, 2002, Medicare outlays will be $257 billion. In 2006, spending is projected to grow to $313 billion; by 2009, to $382 billion and by 2011, to $437 billion. Now totaling 2.24 percent of gross domestic product, Medicare costs will grow to 5 percent in 35 years and to 8 percent in 75 years. Today, one in four Americans is covered by the program _ 34.5 million seniors and 5.8 million disabled. The number enrolled will double by 2035. Burgeoning hospital bills alone are expected to exceed Medicare tax revenues by 60 percent over the next 75 years. At the same time, rising fees for physicians' services will put upward pressure on premiums paid by seniors as well as on general tax revenues, which the program uses in combination to pay its bills. Yet despite steady increases in Medicare spending, the program's impact has deteriorated. Seniors pay an ever-larger share of income for out-of-pocket medical expenses _ more now, in fact, than the 19.1 percent they paid in 1965, before Medicare began. Counting premiums, deductibles, co-payments and uncovered services, the average elderly Medicare beneficiary spent $3,142 on health expenses, 22 percent of income, in 2000. By 2025, that will increase to $5,248, or 30 percent of income, according to the non-profit Commonwealth Fund. One major reason is that Medicare does not cover outpatient prescription drugs. Seniors not poor enough to qualify for Medicaid must pay for them out of pocket or purchase supplemental insurance. Bush has promised prescription drug relief. The latest congressional budget plan earmarked $350 billion over 10 years for drug benefits. And the potent seniors lobby, led by AARP, is pushing hard for the new benefit, which it believes would cost $750 billion over the decade. Critics, who already question Medicare's affordability, say a drug benefit would be an unwelcome competitor for federal dollars needed for education, child care, transportation and technology. ``Adding a prescription drug benefit to Medicare without fundamental reform will partially solve one problem while increasing the size of several others,'' said former Sen. Bob Kerrey, D-Neb., who is president of the New School University in New York City and chairman of the Concord Coalition, a bipartisan group working to control Social Security and Medicare costs. William Beach, who directs the Center for Data Analysis at the conservative Heritage Foundation, despairs over a growing ``dependency'' of Americans on government programs and is skeptical that the huge federal health program can be brought under control. ``Analysts doubtless are correct in noting that Medicaid and Medicare do a better job of meeting the health care needs of indigent and elderly Americans than the earlier, largely community-based systems,'' Beach acknowledged. Nonetheless, shifting the relationship between those receiving health care assistance and those paying for it, Beach said, has created political protection ``so strong that virtually no change other than increases in coverage are permitted.'' Until recently, for example, Alzheimer's sufferers sometimes were automatically denied reimbursement for mental health services, home care or hospice care because such treatment was considered ineffective. But the Bush administration has notified companies that review Medicare claims to end the practice, because ``patients with dementia may benefit from pharmacologic, physical, occupational, speech-language and other therapies.'' The federal Centers for Medicare &AMP; Medicaid Services said it had not calculated the costs of broadening reimbursements for Alzheimer's victims, whose numbers, 4 million today, are expected to increase to between 10 million and 14 million by 2050. (FIRST OPTIONAL TRIM BEGINS) ``That will increase costs and the increase is not going to be small,'' said Robert Reischauer, a former director of the Congressional Budget Office who now heads the Urban Institute, a Washington think tank. Adding a drug benefit, Reischauer said, also would drive up private sector costs far in excess of current projections. But that does not mean additional spending is unjustified, he said. ``The big thing to keep in mind is that Medicare pays for only 58 percent of health expenditures of people over 65, and the ability of most elderly to pay for the remaining 42 percent is quite limited,'' Reischauer said. ``Remember, Medicare is providing a very valuable service _ not to Martians, but to mothers, fathers, grandmothers and grandfathers.'' (FIRST OPTIONAL TRIM ENDS) Medicare's affordability becomes a sharper issue as the population ages and a smaller proportion of working Americans finances increasing retirement costs. The program's defenders argue that demographic calculations amount to scare tactics because they overlook the mitigating factor that workers' economic circumstances will grow substantially, enabling them to pay the program's greater costs. In fact, economic growth means the added cost of Medicare would be ``modest,'' said Marilyn Moon, a former Medicare trustee who studies the program for the Urban Institute. ``If the future leads to increased national well-being, such a sharing of resources may prove to be affordable,'' Moon said. ``That is, workers would still be substantially better off than today, even after paying the full projected costs of Medicare.'' Moreover, Moon added, ``these older and disabled persons must get their care somewhere. If no public program provides health care, then individuals and their families will be responsible for the costs ... (and) those who cannot afford the best care will be left behind.'' (SECOND OPTIONAL TRIM FOLLOWS) John Rother, policy director for AARP, also believes Medicare's long-term financial problems are manageable. ``If productivity continues to hold up at fairly high levels, then our living standards will in all probability double by 2030, so we'll be twice as rich per person as we are today. And that means we can afford to pay for more health care,'' Rother said. ``Taxes will be higher, but we'll have a lot more left over after taxes as well.'' Don't believe it, said the Heritage Foundation's Beach, who believes the exploding costs of entitlement programs like Social Security, Medicaid and Medicare ``will destroy the momentum of the economy.'' ``Medicare in particular is a financial challenge of the first order,'' Beach said. LF END BENSON (Miles Benson can be contacted at miles.benson(at)newhouse.com) 
