Family and friends, record executives, hotel managers, a mega-church, police, the news media and thousands of fans of Lisa ``Left Eye'' Lopes have been feverishly preparing for the young singer's funeral today. In the week since Lopes died in a car crash in Honduras, many have been working to prepare for an event that police estimate could draw up to 30,000 mourners, including household names from the world of pop music. ``Because of (Lisa's) celebrity status, it's turned this whole thing into a production,'' said Sharliss Asbury, a former executive at Atlanta's LaFace Records who has been involved in planning the event. Rob Goldstone, publicist for TLC, the record-setting girl pop group that included Lopes, hinted Wednesday night that the big names at the service might extend beyond the announced performance by Mary Mary, a hit gospel duo. ``The service will be a pretty amazing thing,'' Goldstone said. ``The family was very keen to have the fans give a proper sendoff to Lisa. There is going to be an amazing gospel choir performing, as well as friends, well known in the music industry, who will perform something.'' The service is open to the public at the10,000-seat New Birth Missionary Baptist Church in Lithonia, Ga., in metro Atlanta. Asbury has joined the family and others in marathon planning meetings that often lasted until 4:30 a.m. She said she has risen before 6 most mornings to get going before the phone rings. She also has gathered photos that Lopes' mother, Wanda, requested for a slide presentation. Today's service will be heavily covered by the media. CNN correspondent Kendis Gibson will file live reports beginning at 7 a.m., and some local TV stations will set the scene on their early-morning news shows. All the local stations plan to have reporters inside the church during the service and to report on it during their regular newscasts, beginning at noon. Cable channel BET will use two reporters to cover the service for ``BET Nightly News,'' which airs at 11 p.m. They're also busy at the 244-room Four Seasons Hotel in Atlanta, in part because of Lopes' funeral, but also for Atlanta's Music Midtown festival, which starts Friday. With rooms approaching sellout capacity, the hotel was ensuring that all the VIP guests received amenities such as bottled water and chocolate-dipped strawberries. At New Birth, Bishop Eddie Long pledged to put the church's considerable staff and resources behind the arrangements, said church spokesman Shanan Jones. While Lopes was not a member of New Birth, TLC member Rozonda ``Chilli'' Thomas is, Jones said. ``Bishop Long has great respect for members of TLC,'' he said. DeKalb County police will be at the church to control traffic. Security inside will be provided by the church. The church is regarding the event as a worship service, Jones said, and Long expects people who attend to behave reverently. ``Although we are a large church, we never want to lose sight of the intimacy of what this is all about,'' Jones said. ``This is a `homegoing' for a grieving family.'' Lopes' family has requested 500 reserved seats. Doors will open at 10 for the 11 a.m. service. All mourners should expect to be searched upon entry. No cameras or electronic devices will be allowed. Church officials said that once the church is full, area streets will be closed to allow access in and out for the family. Police were enlisted to block roads around the church on Wednesday night to prevent people from camping out overnight. The service will include: The New Birth Choir singing as mourners arrive and a slide presentation of Lopes' life. The Rev. Charles Dozier reading Psalms 25:1-7, which says, in part: ``Remember, O Lord, thy tender mercies and thy loving kindnesses; for they have been ever of old. Remember not the sins of my youth, nor my transgressions: according to thy mercy remember thou me for thy goodness' sake, O Lord.'' Comments by DeKalb County CEO Vernon Jones, Arista Records chief Antonio ``L.A.'' Reid and the Rev. Sherman Washington. Thoughts of Lopes' brother Ronald, who was with her when she died in Honduras. A reading of a poem called ``A Mother's Love'' selected by Wanda Lopes. The eulogy and benediction by Bishop Long. Lopes' record label, Arista, said her family has requested offerings of condolences be sent in the form of a charitable donation instead of flowers or gifts to: The Lisa ``Left Eye'' Lopes Fund, c/o The Multiple Sclerosis Foundation, National Headquarters _ Special Donations, 6350 N. Andrews Ave., Fort Lauderdale, FL 33309-2130. Donors are asked to include the words ``Lisa 'Left Eye' Lopes Fund'' on the memo line of all checks sent to the foundation. Report by the staff of The Atlanta Journal-Constitution . Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
