``Deuces Wild'' is a film that desperately wants to be a music video circa 1983. All that's missing from its absurdly stagy scenes of gang warfare on the streets of Brooklyn in 1958 is the pounding screech of Michael Jackson's ``Beat It.'' The music we get instead is a tepid rock score by Stewart Copeland spiced with mostly obscure grade-B oldies-but-goodies. This is a movie so insecure about its capacity to excite that it churns up not one but two flagrantly fake thunderstorms to underscore the action. Its loony excesses are exemplified by the casting of poor Deborah Harry as a gang member's dazed mother who has retreated into a fantasy world where it's always Christmas. As she wobbles around her dingy tree-decorated apartment mumbling ``Jingle Bells'' in the middle of summer, the scene seems like a ``Saturday Night Live'' spoof of kitchen-sink realism. Matters are not helped by the appearances of two prominent cast members of ``The Sopranos.'' Here, Vincent Pastore, whose ``Sopranos'' character Big Pussy went to sleep with the fishes a while ago, is Father Aldo, a kindly but ineffectual priest whose peacemaking efforts on the mean streets of Sunset Park come to naught. Drea DeMatteo (Adriana on ``The Sopranos'') has altered her hair color (to brilliant blond) but not her alley-cat body language for the role of Betsy, the girlfriend of Leon (Stephen Dorff), leader of the gang known as the Deuces. In both instances, the overlay of associations from the television series to the film produces an uneasy double vision. The formulaic plot finds Leon and Bobby (Brad Renfro), his hot-headed brother and fellow gang member, at philosophical loggerheads. Where Leon urges restraint in the Deuces' continuing turf war with the rival Vipers, Bobby is itching for a fight. Loyalties begin to crumble when Bobby starts dating Annie (Fairuza Balk), the tough sister of a Viper leader. Gang warfare looms when Marco (Norman Reedus), who has spent the last three years in prison, returns to avenge himself on Leon, who fingered him to the police. The evil Marco also teams up with Fritzy (Matt Dillon), the neighborhood crime boss, to start a heroin distribution operation. Observing the rites of turf warfare with a solemn, saucer-eyed intensity is Leon's pubescent protege, Scooch (Frankie Muniz), who is given the movie's last word after much blood as been spilled. ``Deuces Wild,'' which opens on Friday nationwide, was directed by Scott Kalvert (from a screenplay by Paul Kimatian and Christopher Gambale) in a style so overheated that every spasm of violence becomes a frenzied production number. But the theatrical choreography, jump-cut editing and slow-motion cinematography strip these scenes of much of their visceral punch and leave you with the feeling of watching a road company rehearsal of ``West Side Story'' filmed for MTV. Both Dorff and Renfro can be live wires when handed juicy roles. But the canned, thirdhand dialogue they are forced to mouth (about Da Duke, as in Snider, and other 1950s Brooklyn cliches) prove insurmountable. And in a glaring oversight, neither actor adopts the Brooklyn accent that is an essential badge of credibility. And speaking of credibility, Dorff is too small and wiry an actor to pull off the Schwarzenegger-worthy feats required of his character. Hunky hoods and their hot babes itching for a rumble on the sweaty streets of Brooklyn in those fabulous '50s? Maybe it's time the movies gave them a long, long rest. PRODUCTION NOTES: `DEUCES WILD' Directed by Scott Kalvert; written by Paul Kimatian and Christopher Gambale; director of photography, John A. Alonzo; edited by Michael R. Miller; music by Stewart Copeland; production designer, David L. Snyder; produced by Michael Cerenzie, Willi Baer, Fred Caruso and Kimatian; released by United Artists. Running time: 97 minutes. Cast: Stephen Dorff (Leon), Brad Renfro (Bobby), Fairuza Balk (Annie), Vincent Pastore (Father Aldo), Frankie Muniz (Scooch), Balthazar Getty (Jimmy Pockets), Deborah Harry (Wendy), Drea DeMatteo (Betsy) and Norman Reedus (Marco). ``Deuces Wild'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It includes abundant profanity, sexual situations and gory fight scenes. 
