Tens of thousands of public school children in New York City are experiencing chronic nightmares, fear of public places, severe anxiety and other mental health problems months after the World Trade Center attack, a study conducted for the Board of Education has found. Board officials say the study provides the most comprehensive look ever at the psychological impact of a major disaster on American schoolchildren. The board's results, they say, will help parents and teachers recognize and treat symptoms that children are experiencing in the wake of a calamity that left even some of the hardiest adults badly shaken. About 8,300 of the school system's 1.1 million students participated in the study, conducted by public health researchers and psychologists in February and March in consultation with the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. . Although a disproportionate number of the students surveyed attend schools near ground zero, the study, using random sampling techniques, also evaluated children in every other neighborhood of New York and weighted the results accordingly. The results, which Schools Chancellor Harold Levy released on Wednesday, provide strong evidence that the terrorist attack and other events that followed, like the anthrax scare in October and the plane crash in the Rockaways section of Queens in November, took a heavy psychological toll on city children, including many who were not directly affected. Although there have been smaller studies of children affected by the bombing of the Federal Building in Oklahoma City bombing and other disasters, the results of the New York study surprised researchers because the trauma wrought by Sept. 11 appeared to be quite evenly dispersed through a large geographical area, not limited to the area near ground zero. The study estimates that 75,000 school children in the 4th through the 12th grades, or 10.5 percent of the children in those grades, suffered post-traumatic stress disorder after Sept. 11. Even more _ 107,395, or 15 percent _ suffered agoraphobia, or fear of public places. Levy said that many in that category admitted a fear of riding public transportation after the attack, a significant finding since a large percentage of city students take buses or subways to school. The study found that Hispanic students were disproportionately affected by psychological problems after the attack. That finding mirrored results of a study published last month in The New England Journal of Medicine, which found that among the city's adult population, more Hispanics suffered mental health problems after Sept. 11 than did any other ethnic group. The Board of Education study made no attempt to explain whether adults' anxieties affected children. The researchers estimated that 13.8 percent of Hispanic students citywide suffered post-traumatic stress disorder, compared with 9 percent of non-Hispanic blacks, 8 percent of non-Hispanic whites and 9 percent of Asians. In comparison, the study published in The New England Journal of Medicine found that 13.8 percent of Hispanics suffered post-traumatic stress disorder, compared with 9.3 percent of blacks, 6.5 percent of whites and 3.2 percent of Asians. Girls were more likely than boys to experience psychological problems, and fourth and fifth graders seemed to have more symptoms than older ones, the study found. ``This is powerful information to help teachers, guidance counselors and others identify kids who are experiencing these symptoms and do what we can to reduce the severity of it,'' Levy said on Wednesday. ``There has been a psychological injury here which is focused on younger children, focused on the Hispanic community and focused on girls.'' Although children who live or attend school near ground zero were more likely than the general population to experience mental health problems, they were not so heavily affected as children from around the city who had relatives or acquaintances injured or killed in the attack. Typical symptoms included thinking obsessively about the attack; trying not to think, hear or talk about it; troubles sleeping; chronic nightmares; and shortened attention spans. The study, paid for with $500,000 from the Federal Emergency Management Agency, was conducted primarily by researchers at Columbia University's Mailman School of Public Health and at a private firm, Applied Research and Consulting, which studied the psychological impact of the 1993 World Trade Center bombing on people who worked there. Mental health experts from New York University's Child Study Center and Yale University's Center for Children Exposed to Violence also took part. The researchers surveyed the 8,300 students in their schools during five weeks in February and March, using surveys with more 100 questions. They read the questions aloud to the younger students, and let the older students read through it on their own. Levy said the study excluded students in kindergarten through third grade mostly to save time and money, but that researchers also feared it would be more difficult to assess the effects on such young children. The survey questions included asking whether in recent weeks the student had thought about what happened at the World Trade Center (76 percent said yes); had problems falling or staying asleep (24 percent yes); had a lot of nightmares (17 percent yes); had tried hard not to think or talk about the attack (45 percent yes); had stopped going places or doing things that might remind him or her of the attack (18 percent yes). Another question asked whether the student had stopped ``thinking about the future or things you might do when you are older.'' Sixteen percent of the students surveyed answered yes to that question, the researchers said. The study concluded that students who had at least six such symptoms _ 11 percent of the participants _ were suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder. Six symptoms is a threshold generally accepted by mental health researchers. 
