Say you're looking at two mutual funds, charted over five years. One is consistently lower in returns, but it comprises stocks from companies you like, and you know the fund manager is a bright person. Do you buy it? Probably not, but who roams center field on your imaginary all-time, all-star team: Willie Mays or Mickey Mantle? Sports nuts, especially baseball fans, can take such choices as seriously as they do their retirement investments, but generally they follow their hearts in sports. Allen Barra would remind them that, in either case, numbers don't lie. And Barra, who writes about sports for The Wall Street Journal and Salon.com, has a ready retort for those who dismiss his penchant for statistical analysis: What else would you use? What outlines a player's greatness better than the cumulative evidence of that player's accomplishments? In ``Clearing the Bases,'' Barra revisits many of the game's most venerable barstool battles, including Mays vs. Mantle. Comparing statistics from their peak seasons, he takes Mantle. Revealing this hardly takes the punch out of the chapter comparing the two, because what animates such arguments, especially for Barra's potential readers, is the process of arriving at the choice. Barra hails from the growing legion of stat-mongers whose modern pioneer is Bill James, author of the ``Baseball Abstract.'' But Barra says upfront that he tries to avoid too much wonkery, and most of the statistical categories he uses are time-honored. As Barra notes, for instance, on-base average was Branch Rickey's favorite yardstick of hitting, and Barra credits an economics professor at his alma mater with helping devise a refinement, SLOB _ the multiplication of on-base average and slugging percentage. And so, compiling statistical lines from Total Baseball, the game's official encyclopedia, and doing a little math, Barra asks you to see for yourself. Mantle really does come out ahead. He wipes a little luster off the Babe Ruth legend. He stacks Tim Raines against Pete Rose and finds the latter lacking, the all-time hits record notwithstanding. Barra's not all numbers. His prose is easy and conversational, and he is attuned to the emotional edge of sport, as his chapter on the 1986 Mets, ``The Dynasty That Never Was,'' proves. And he is capable of heart-over-head decisions. He runs the numbers on Ted Williams and Joe DiMaggio, makes his choice, and then reverses himself on one of the ``intangibles'' he usually scorns. Barra describes some chapters as ``extensions'' of columns he's written and says others are new responses to ideas posed by readers, but it's possible his regular audience will not find much new here. Other fans should enjoy a breezy read, and maybe an argument or two. And those who condemn Barra's approach _ well, he's got a mutual fund for you. ``Clearing the Bases: The Greatest Baseball Debates of the Last Century'' By Allen Barra. St. Martin's. $24.95. 304 pages. The verdict: Provocative and not overly wonky. KEEP READING Every spring ushers in a slew of new books on baseball. Here are a few of this season's highlights: ``The New Bill James Historical Baseball Abstract'' (The Free Press, $45). In a completely revised edition of his seminal 1985 book, James ranks the top 100 players at every position in the history of the game. ``Baseball: A Literary Anthology,'' edited by Nicholas Dawidoff (Modern Library, $35). True fans will recognize many of these 84 pieces, but never have they been collected in one handy volume. Sportswriters (Ring Lardner, Red Smith, Damon Runyon) and literary types (Richard Ford, Robert Frost, Marianne Moore) celebrate the game in memoirs, profiles, oral history, newspaper columns, fiction and poetry. ``Perfect: The Story of Baseball's Sixteen Perfect Games'' by James Buckley Jr. (Triumph Books, $24.95). U.S. Sen. Jim Bunning (R-Ky.), a perfect game pitcher for Philadelphia (June 21, 1964 against the Mets), contributes an introduction. ``Black Baseball's National Showcase: The East-West All-Star Games, 1933-1953'' by Larry Lester (University of Nebraska Press, $39.95). For 21 years the summer event drew crowds of more than 40,000 to major-league ballparks. This book features photographs, newspaper reports, box scores and stats. ``Taking in a Game: A History of Baseball in Asia'' by Joseph Reaves (University of Nebraska Press, $29.95) expands our knowledge of Asian baseball to Korea, China, Taiwan and the Philippines. Chuck Twardy writes for The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
