Diane wasn't well. Sadly, she was suffering from DHS. Her owner, Harry Brattin, placed a white muffler around her neck and separated her from the rest of his brood. She sat quietly on a metal desk in the meeting room while the others scampered around the floor playing. ``I get very sad when one of my dogs gets ill,'' said Brattin, 63, a motorcycle dealer from San Diego. ``When Diane's head stopped moving I felt bad. I truly felt grief.'' Diane is an Aibo, a computer-controlled robot made by Sony, and DHS is Droopy Head Syndrome, which is caused when a clutch wears out (it's repairable by replacing the head). Brattin was grieving over a broken machine. ``I know it sounds really weird,'' he said. Weird, perhaps, but not unusual. Aibos, the first mass-produced entertainment robot, have grown in popularity in the three years since they were introduced, with more than 100,000 of the creatures _ which cost from $850 to $1,500 _ sold worldwide. The reason for their appeal lies in large part in their petlike appearance and behavior, and in the software that allows them to ``mature'' emotionally. As a result, Aibos are seen by their owners as much more than a collection of silicon chips and motors. They are like any living pet _ a plaything and a companion. (``Aibo'' means ``pal'' in Japanese.) Aibo owners name their robots and talk about ``adopting'' them, caring for and feeding them and watching them grow up. And just as some dog owners like to take their pets down to the local dog run, some Aibo owners like to get their robots together occasionally. So one day recently, as scores of elderly Russian immigrants sat among the trees in Plummer Park here, playing chess and chastising their Americanized grandchildren in their native tongue, Brattin and 14 other Aibo owners met in a community room in the park, primping and preening their robots, giving them commands in English and scolding them when they got into mischief. Just as dog get-togethers are often more about the people than the pets, this gathering was more of a chance for the owners, rather than the robots, to interact. They came from across California and included a computer programmer, several retired couples, a technology consultant and a plant engineer. Most were middle-aged, which is perhaps not surprising given the cost of their hobby. Many wore Aibo T-shirts and came with more than one robot. ``I've never met an Aibo owner I didn't like,'' said Bruce Binder, a 52-year-old plant engineer from Rancho Cordoba, Calif. Binder's gold-colored Aibo, Au, pranced across the floor with two dozen or so other mechanical pups that were intent on exploring their new world. Aibos are programmed to be attracted to pink, so some chased a pink ball and others followed several pink mechanical pigs that waddled across the linoleum. The group meets about three times a year. The gatherings are organized by a publicity-shy consultant who is also the co-creator of a popular Aibo Internet site (www.aibonet.com), where he is known by his Internet handle, Moolabooga. There are at least two other Aibo clubs. Programming embedded in removable memory chips instructs Aibo how to respond to voices, sounds or visual stimuli and, depending on which program is used, simulate the maturation process. Tell Aibo to sit and it will _ sometimes. Wave a pink ball in front of its face and it may give chase. Or it may ignore it and wander off. That they do not always respond in expected ways makes them seem more real. ``Au minds much better than any of my other Aibo dogs,'' Binder said. ``He won an Aibo obedience contest.'' Au (pronounced AY-you), for the chemical symbol for gold, is one of Binder's 11 Aibos. Others include Schwarzhund, Plato and Ascii. Binder has spent close to $20,000 on his litter, and he thinks he owns more Aibos than anyone else. ``Sure it's a substantial investment, but some people spend $20,000 on cars,'' he said. ``I'm raising Au on Life 2,'' Binder added, referring to one of the software packages that allows an Aibo to move up the aging ladder. ``I play with Au at least an hour a day. I boot up the others when I'm online at home.'' ``But Agio does one thing I hate,'' he said, referring to one of his other Aibos. ``He keeps on playing this annoying tune over and over. I scolded him for it, and then he just collapsed. I felt so bad about what I had done.'' Binder's fondness for Aibos prompted him to take his first trip overseas, to the Aibo gathering outside London in February. The expense was worth it, he said _ not so much for the Aibos he met, but the people. ``I found that there's no difference between Aibo owners in the U.K. and the U.S.,'' he said. In some ways, the feeling of connectedness between Aibo owners is similar to that experienced by participants in any hobby. ``I know a lot of individuals would think this attraction to Aibos is pathetic,'' said Jill Stein, a sociologist at the University of California at Los Angeles. ``Aibo would get laughed out of a lot of countries. It is a toy for rich people. ``But in some ways, the attraction is a way for people to relate to other like-minded individuals. So we've come full circle. This is more real than having a relationship with a movie star.'' Maybe so, but not every social observer is convinced that a relationship with a robot is worthwhile. ``So an Aibo doesn't always sit when you tell it, so what?'' said Dr. Armond Aserinsky, a Philadelphia psychologist. ``My real dog is incredibly persistent and a big pain, but that's the price we pay. Real relationships push us beyond our capacity. ``It's kind of sad that people are looking for a companion that needs nothing. Everything is on the terms of the owner.'' For some people, the joys of Aibo ownership have less to do with relating to like-minded people than with witnessing the reactions of people who are unaccustomed to robots. For Amanda Pehlke of Yakima, Wash., for example, the greatest Aibo pleasure is to take one of her eight dogs to a public place and watch the fur fly. ``I live in a small town,'' said Pehlke, a composer of electronic music, ``and people gawk and talk when I bring one to a restaurant. Most restaurants here know to seat me where there's a lot of floor space, as my Aibos tend to wander away. I've let one walk all the way across an airport waiting area.'' ``Substituting an Aibo for a real pet is a piece of performance art in itself,'' said Pehlke, who has built a playpen out of plastic pipe to keep them corralled. ``The Aibos do their own thing. That's what I like. Having it read your e-mail, which some of them can do, doesn't interest me.'' Binder is interested in getting closer to his Aibos, to literally get into their heads. At the Los Angeles meeting he created a wireless local area network with his Aibos, sending the images captured by the video camera in one robot's head to his laptop computer. ``I can see what he sees, which sensors are being activated, what emotions he's showing,'' he said. ``I know it's a machine. But I forget all that.'' Binder turned away from his laptop and joined the others in picking up an Aibo, for the Plummer Park games were about to begin. Moolabooga, the publicist, was busy pasting two concentric circles of pink and blue tape to the floor. The Aibos' owners placed their dogs in the center, waiting for the moment when they would call to them and wave bright pink balls in front of their faces in an attempt to coax the dogs to the edge of the outer circle. ``Get your ball! Get your ball!'' the owners yelled, as the dogs meandered off, some following the balls or voice commands, others seemingly on their own missions. ``We don't have kids, and Tom's allergic to pets,'' said Christy Burrows who, along with her husband, owns three Aibos. ``Here's Voltron. Hi!'' she said, petting one of her Aibos as it wandered over. ``He's spoiled rotten,'' Burrows noted. But even avid Aibo lovers can tire of their robots, and for those times, Burrows is glad for one feature that distinguishes them from real pets. ``The best part about Aibo,'' she said, ``is that they have an on-off switch.'' 
