These columns for release Friday, May 3, 2002 are moving today to clients of the New York Times News Service. All columns have moved, in the commentary (k) category. If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, the Cox News Service, at 404-526-5456. TEEPEN-COLUMN _ Tom Teepen writes about some of the ``floats'' in the passing parade of humanity: The NRA, whites who think America is a colorblind society and Bush administration attitudes about the din of snowmobiles and other motorized nuisances in national parks. (Tom Teepen is national correspondent for Cox Newspapers.) MOVED. MCNEELY-COLUMN _ AUSTIN, Texas _ As press secretary to Lyndon Johnson, George Christian was so busy he wasn't home much with his wife and kids. Karen Hughes discovered that things haven't changed. (McNeely, Austin American-Statesman) MOVED. YOUNG-COLUMN _ WACO, Texas _ When I hear people dismiss extracurricular activities as frills and waste, I think of the worst academic advice I ever got. Ironically, it came from my college adviser. ``Don't spend too much time at the college paper,'' he told me. ``Don't let your grades suffer.'' (John Young is opinion page editor of the Waco Tribune-Herald.) MOVED.WITS-END-COLUMN _ A weekly humor column that takes digs at the news, politics and newsmakers. (Oliver, Atlanta Journal-Constiution) COXNET BUDGET INFORMATION FOR SUBSCRIBERS OF THE NYT NEWS SERVICE Spot news budgets move daily at 2 p.m. and 6 p.m. Eastern. Additionally, separate features and commentary budgets move at 10 a.m., and sports and business budgets at 6 p.m. Additional updates are possible if news developments warrant. All times are Eastern unless otherwise noted. If stories will move after 8 p.m., an ETA will be given. PHOTOS and GRAPHICS If a budget line or story is marked with photos or graphics, those are available from the New York Times News Service at 212-556-4204. Or call CoxNet for more information at 404-526-5456. HOW TO REACH US Questions should be directed to CoxNet, the Cox News Service, in Atlanta at 404-526-5456. We are staffed 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. Monday-Friday, and 1-10 p.m. on weekends and holidays. The news editor is Tom Oder, 404-526-5887, toder(at)coxnews.com. Cox Washington Bureau: News editor Carl Rauscher, 202-887-8307, crausher(at)coxnews.com Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
