Monsignor James Jamail, listening to the Astros' 8-2 win over the Expos on Thursday, surely got a kick out of how it happened. Craig Biggio was a little late. Just like Biggio used to occasionally arrive late for services at St. Vincent de Paul Catholic Church, he was a little late delivering on a pledge to hit a home run for the man whose character and grace have so deeply affected this Astros hero's life. On the second pitch of the home half of the first inning Thursday, Biggio indeed delivered. He sent one long and high over the left-field fence, and as Biggio rounded the bases showing not a hint of emotion to the crowd, the thought crossed his mind: ``That was for you, Monsignor.'' One night earlier, Biggio had arranged for his seriously ill friend to attend the Astros' 5-4 loss to the Expos. Biggio's wife, Patty, sat in box seats behind home plate with the Monsignor, a cancer patient who has been hospitalized on and off for months. Monsignor Jamail has attended numerous games with the Biggios over the past dozen years of their friendship, but with his illness affecting him more and causing Monsignor Jamail to lose some of his vision, Biggio wanted to do something special. ``Wouldn't it be nice,'' Monsignor Jamail told Biggio before the game, ``to see you play again and you hit a home run.'' The Monsignor got his wish, albeit two pitches late. Biggio's gesture Wednesday was neither publicized nor intended to be some kind of contrived plea for sympathy or attention. That's not what the Monsignor or Biggio wanted. Few people outside Biggio's family knew about Monsignor Jamail's visit to Wednesday's game and what it meant to the Astros' leadoff man. But as the game progressed, fans behind home plate began switching seats, realizing that the Monsignor was having difficulty watching, so they allowed him to move to the front row. Biggio stepped up in the bottom of the ninth inning with a runner on base, and from the center-field camera, some television viewers might have recognized Patty Biggio sitting where Astros owner Drayton McLane Jr. usually sits, but at her side was the Monsignor. Biggio popped out. ``I wanted to hit him a home run last night so much,'' Biggio said. ``Even though it didn't work out, I know it meant a lot to him that I got one today.'' The promise fulfilled came just two pitches after Biggio popped out to end Wednesday's game. But Biggio, who usually avoids showing too much emotion or allowing too many glimpses into his private life, smiled at the irony. ``I used to talk with (former Astros bench coach) Matt Galante about church and he told me about Monsignor Jamail,'' Biggio said, remembering how he met the Monsignor 12 years ago. ``Matt used to go all the time and one day he brought me the Mass schedule. I went a few times and enjoyed it, but sometimes I got to Mass late. I was embarrassed, but Monsignor would tell me, ``That's OK. You can be late as long as you come.' '' Theirs became a relationship that few outside the Astros family knew about, but it was close and true and unconditional. ``He loves baseball, but it's not at all like all I am to him is a baseball player,'' Biggio said. ``He's a true friend and we just talk a lot. He's meant everything to me and my family.'' As Biggio stood alone at his locker after Thursday's game, wondering what happened to the home run ball he hoped to give to the Monsignor, he reflected on the personal battle his friend has had to endure and how it has affected Biggio. While the Astros have spent much of the first five weeks of the season on the road, struggling to find their way, Biggio has, too. He regularly has called his church and Patty to check on his friend. When the Astros had an off day between road series at Colorado and St. Louis, Biggio flew home after the afternoon game against the Rockies on April 10, arriving at the hospital near midnight. He sat at Monsignor Jamail's bedside, encouraging him, talking about the kids, the church and battling back. He returned to the hospital the next day and again flew home on an off day April 15. Some of Biggio's visits, Monsignor Jamail remembered. Others, he did not. But the visits were important to Monsignor Jamail and important to Biggio. ``He's just my friend, is what he is,'' Biggio said. ``He's a great man that has done a lot of great things. That church wouldn't have survived without him. It wouldn't exist right now. Everything there he's helped _ the church, the school, down to the last pupil. He's never tired of trying to help you no matter who you are. He wanted to be a priest since he was 14 years old. He knew what he wanted to do and he's done it in a great way.'' Now, Biggio, whose children attend the St. Vincent de Paul school, has fulfilled the promise. He knew what he wanted to do and he did it. Somewhere, no doubt, Monsignor Jamail laughed at the irony. A little late? That's OK. 
