ATLANTA _ CLEMSON _ Last season: 7-5 overall, 4-4 ACC (tied for fourth); beat Louisiana Tech 49-24 in Humanitarian Bowl. _ Starters returning: Four on offense, eight on defense, two kickers. _ Players to watch: QB Willie Simmons (914 yards passing in 13 career games); WR Derrick Hamilton (49 catches, 590 yards); DT Nick Eason. _ Coach: Tommy Bowden, 40-18 overall, 22-14 in his fourth season at Clemson. _ Review: Simmons, a senior, is the likely choice to replace Woody Dantzler, but he is being pushed by Charlie Whitehurst. _ Injuries: SS Altroy Bodrick, who sat out last season with a torn ACL, took part in all drills except the scrimmages. WR Kevin Youngblood, who missed last season with a broken leg, practiced but did not play in the spring game. _ Questions remaining: The Tigers have to find four new starters to join tackle Gary Byrd on the offensive line. Clemson also hopes that two young running backs _ Chad Jasmin and Tye Hill _ can provide the breakaway threat it needs. _ First game: Aug. 31 at Georgia. DUKE _ Last season: 0-11, 0-8 ACC (ninth). _ Starters returning: Six on offense, seven on defense, two kickers. _ Players to watch: QB D. Bryant (3,902 yards career passing); TB Chris Douglas (841 yards rushing, 168.1 all-purpose yards per game); LB Ryan Fowler (127 tackles). _ Coach: Carl Franks, 3-30 in his fourth season at Duke. _ Review: The No. 1 job of the spring was to improve a defense that finished 113th nationally, gave up 492 yards per game and set an ACC record points allowed with 44.6 per game. New defensive coordinator Ted Roof persuaded six players to switch positions to improve speed. _ Injuries: OT Drew Strojny and sophomore LB Jim Scharrer missed spring practice as they recovered from offseason shoulder surgery. _ Questions remaining: There are major concerns in the offensive line and secondary. There are only two seniors on the team and 64 of the 83 scholarship players will be freshmen, redshirt freshmen or sophomores. _ First game: Aug. 31 vs. East Carolina. FLORIDA STATE _ Last season: 8-4, 6-2 ACC (second); beat Virginia Tech 30-17 in Gator Bowl. _ Starters returning: Seven on offense, eight on defense, two kickers. _ Players to watch: QB Chris Rix (2,734 passing, 24 TDs); TB Nick Maddox (438 yards rushing); DT Darnell Dockett. _ Coach: Bobby Bowden, 323-91-4 overall, 250-59-4 in his 27th season at Florida State. _ Review: Rix, a sophomore, held off the challenges of Adrian McPherson and Fabian Walker. The Seminoles might field the best wide receivers corps in the country. The defense made strides in getting its old pass rush back behind DE Alonzo Jackson. _ Injuries: Dockett (Achilles tendon) and LB Kendyll Pope (shoulder) were held out of contact drills. _ Questions remaining: Defensively, FSU needs to find another cornerback to complement Stanford Samuels, the defensive MVP of spring practice. _ First game: Aug. 24 vs. Iowa State in Kansas City, Mo. GEORGIA TECH _ Last season: 8-5, 4-4 ACC (tied for fourth); beat Stanford 24-14 in Seattle Bowl. _ Starters returning: Five on offense, nine on defense, two kickers. _ Players to watch: OT Nat Dorsey; DE Greg Gathers (30 career sacks); LB Recardo Wimbush; PK Luke Manget. _ Coach: Chan Gailey, 24-11 overall, first season at Georgia Tech. _ Review: Spring priorities were to find a starting quarterback; find a starting tailback; solidify the right side of the offensive line and find an end and cornerback. Tech was able to accomplish Nos. 3 and 4 during spring drills. _ Injuries: RB Sidney Ford (ribs) sat out the last week of practice, and TB Jimmy Dixon (foot) missed the last 1 1/2 weeks. RB Jermaine Hatch and WR Nate Curry were limited while recovering from knee injuries. _ Questions remaining: Redshirt freshman Damarius Bilbo and Tennessee transfer A.J. Suggs emerged as the top two quarterbacks, but a starter was not named. Tony Hollings, a converted defensive back, was the top tailback in the spring. _ First game: Aug. 31 vs. Vanderbilt. MARYLAND _ Last season: 10-2, 7-1 ACC (first); lost to Florida 56-23 in the Orange Bowl. _ Starters returning: Eight on offense, five on defense, two kickers. _ Players to watch: TB Bruce Perry (1,242 yards, 10 TDs; 40 catches, 358 yards); LB E.J. Henderson (150 tackles); P Brooks Barnard (44.5 avg.). _ Coach: Ralph Friedgen, 10-2 in his second year at Maryland. _ Review: Redshirt sophomore quarterback Chris Kelley had moved ahead of sophomore Scott McBrien until Kelley suffered a torn anterior cruciate ligament in his right knee during the spring game on April 27. Former QB Latrez Harrison of Atlanta was moved to wide receiver. _ Injuries: Henderson, the ACC Player of the Year, had back surgery April 9 and sat out. Perry, the ACC Offensive Player of the Year, also missed spring drills as he continued to recover from an abdominal injury. _ Questions remaining: McBrien, a transfer from West Virginia, will compete with junior college transfer Orlando Evans for the quarterback job. Maryland must get settled in the secondary, where three starters were lost. _ First game: Aug. 31 vs. Notre Dame. NORTH CAROLINA _ Last season: 8-5, 5-3 ACC (third); beat Auburn 16-10 in the Chick-fil-A Peach Bowl. _ Starters returning: Nine on offense, two on defense, one kicker. _ Players to watch: QB Darian Durant (1,843 yards passing, 17 TD); RB Willie Parker (4.8 ypc average); CB Michael Waddell (14 passes broken up). _ Coach: John Bunting, 46-19-2 overall, 8-5 in his second season at North Carolina. _ Review: North Carolina, which won eight of its last 10 games in 2001, is rebuilding its defense under new coordinator Dave Huxtable. Sophomore Chase Page moved from offensive line to defensive tackle. Redshirt freshman Doug Justice appears to have won the job at middle linebacker. _ Injuries: TB Andre Williams sat out after back surgery. WR Bosley Allen came back from suspension for one day of practice and then broke a bone in his foot. He will be healing for at least two months but is expected to return. _ Questions remaining: There remains a battle at quarterback between Florida transfer C.J. Stephens and the sophomore Durant. Durant, who threw for 1,843 yards last season as a backup to Ronald Curry, announced in February that he would transfer and then changed his mind. _ First game: Aug. 31 vs. Miami (Ohio). N.C. STATE _ Last season: 7-5, 4-4 ACC (tied for fourth); lost to Pittsburgh 34-19 in the Tangerine Bowl. _ Starters returning: Six on offense, six on defense, two kickers. _ Players to watch: QB Philip Rivers (2,586 yards passing, 16 TD); WR Bryan Peterson (48 catches, 657 yards); DB Terrence Holt (104 tackles). _ Coach: Chuck Amato, 15-9 in his third year at N.C. State. _ Review: The offensive line is still up in the air. The two tackles _ Chris Colmer and Scott Kooistra _ are back, but N.C. State ended spring practice still looking for two guards and a center. _ Injuries: Colmer sat out spring practice with a foot injury but will be ready for preseason practice. TE Joe Gray (knee) also missed the spring but should be back. _ Questions remaining: Who will replace All-America linebacker LeVar Fisher, the school's leading tackler? Sophomore Freddie Aughtry-Lindsay appears to have the range and toughness to handle it. _ First game: Aug. 24 vs. New Mexico. VIRGINIA _ Last season: 5-7, 3-5 ACC (T7th). _ Starters returning: Seven on offense, six on defense, no kickers. _ Players to watch: QB Matt Schaub (1,524 yards passing, 10 TDs); WR Billy McMullen (83 catches, 1,060 yards, 12 TDs); LB Angelo Crowell (144 tackles). _ Coach: Al Groh, 5-7 in his second season at Virginia. _ Review: Virginia was devoted to finding depth on the offensive and defensive lines, where seven of last season's 17 lettermen return. Virginia's defense, which gave up 27.6 points and 430.6 yards per game last season, became more comfortable with Groh's 3-4 system. _ Injuries: S Shernard Newby (shoulder) and FB Jonathan Ward (concussion) did not take part in spring drills but will return in the fall. _ Questions remaining: What kind of impact will the incoming freshman class have? Virginia signed one of its best recruiting classes, and Groh made it clear that a number of the signees could play, particularly on defense. _ First game: Aug. 22 vs. Colorado State. WAKE FOREST _ Last season: 6-5, 3-5 ACC (tied for seventh). _ Starters returning: Eight on offense, eight on defense, one kicker. _ Players to watch: QB James MacPherson (1,555 yards passing, 5 TD); RB Tarence Williams (1,018 yards rushing, 10 TD); DE Calvin Pace (62 tackles, 18 tackles for loss). _ Coach: Jim Grobe, 39-38-1 overall, 6-5 in his second season at Wake Forest. _ Review: Former quarterback Anthony Young was moved to wide receiver because of the emergence of redshirt freshman Cory Randolph, who is a solid No. 2 behind MacPherson, the senior. _ Injuries: There were no major injuries but RB Tarence Williams (ankle) sat out the spring game. _ Questions remaining: Because of Wake Forest's power running attack _ it led the ACC last season with 221.6 ypg _ Grobe likes to rotate 10 offensive linemen per game. But the Deacons may be hard-pressed to find that many who are ready to play. They are particularly concerned about find a replacement for center Vince Azzolina. _ First game: Aug. 29 at Northern Illinois. Tony Barnhart writes for The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
