University of Houston economics professor Barton Smith, speaking at his annual real estate symposium, said Houston's real estate markets will be a bit tarnished in certain places in 2002. Some of the softer spots in the Houston real estate picture will be upper-end homes for the affluent, the downtown office market and the absorption of warehouse space, Smith said. And after several strong years of gains, home value appreciation will be moderate in 2002. ``This is not going to be a great year,'' Smith said. But things are not going to be disastrous, either. Even though the economy is cooling, the current conditions fundamentally are far better than the days of the economic crash in the mid-1980s. ``The real estate markets across the board are really in good shape,'' Smith told an overflowing crowd of more than 1,000 at the Radisson Hotel Astrodome. Houston added only 4,000 jobs last year, an unimpressive level of economic growth. But in comparison to most of the nation, the city performed well, trailing only San Diego and Miami in job growth last year, Smith said. Many U.S. cities were reporting job losses last year, with cities such as Denver, Seattle, Atlanta and New York shedding thousands of jobs. Houston's economy also is performing much better than those of Dallas and Austin, which have been hit hard by layoffs in the technology and computer industries, he said. The bankruptcy of Enron Corp. last year gave the city a black eye, and media coverage was intense. But Smith said the layoffs at Enron were not a major blow to the city's economy. Smith's outlook calls for a gain of 21,000 jobs in the area this year, but the increases will be registered in the last part of 2002. The city's economy may sputter for a while and lose some more jobs until the recovery takes hold. Improvement in the national economy will lead Houston to stronger gains in the next few years, an increase of about 40,000 jobs in 2003 and 65,000 jobs in 2004, Smith forecasted. The recovery of the Houston-area economy really depends on the rebound of the national economy, said Smith, a director of the University of Houston Institute for Regional Forecasting. The national economic rebound will have a dark side to it. When the national economy comes back, the Federal Reserve will be motivated to raise interest rates, which will put a damper on the residential market, Smith said. The upscale housing market, which is more dependent on wealth generated in the stock market and other investments, will be softer this year in Houston, Smith said. Home builders have been raising prices for new homes across the area in recent years. The median price of a new home in the Houston suburbs was $70.80 per square foot in 2001, up 4.5 percent from the previous year. In 1996, the median per square foot for new homes was $53. Smith built his reputation as an economist when he accurately predicted the 1980s economic crash. XXX END OF STORY 
