The Dallas Cowboys had a 42-year head start on the Texans, not to mention the entire state to themselves once the Oilers bolted for Tennessee after the 1996 season. Needless to say, the Texans have some catching up to do on and off the field. Reliant Stadium is nearly sold out for the Texans' inaugural season, strong evidence of the buzz the team has created in Houston. Now, the echo can be heard statewide. The Texans launched their first outreach tour this week in an effort to build fan interest outside the immediate Houston area. The tour, which made stops in Waco and College Station on Tuesday, will visit eight cities in six days, with appearances by players, cheerleaders and Toro, the team's mascot. The caravan kicked off Sunday in Beaumont and included stops in Nacogdoches and Lufkin on Monday. Austin, Corpus Christi and Victoria also are on the schedule. While building fan interest and establishing their identity in the state is the prime objective, the tour has given the Texans an outlet to provide inspiration to those who need it most. Five hospital visits are scheduled, including Tuesday's trip to St. Joseph's Health System in Bryan. A contingent led by cornerback Aaron Glenn and center Steve McKinney, a pair of former Texas A&AMP;M Aggies, might as well have been sunshine on a cloudy day, popping in and out of rooms on the pediatric floor at St. Joseph's. They talked football and perseverance, among other things, to the young fans. While the visit lasted about an hour, Glenn and McKinney looked and sounded as if they could have stayed all day. ``It's a way for us to get out and not only spread the word about the Texans but also to lift some of these kids' day,'' McKinney said. ``They're in here sick, and if we can just come in and cheer them up for one day, that makes me feel good. ``You come into a hospital, and if you just say hi to some of these kids and you're only in here for five minutes, you might cheer them up for the rest of the day. It's very rewarding in that regard. It's overwhelming at times.'' Glenn, McKinney, the cheerleaders and Toro satisfied a long line of autograph seekers, mostly hospital staff members and visitors. Angela Clendenin, St. Joseph's program promotions coordinator, said many of the patients were unable to come to the autograph area because it would be too difficult to transport them from their rooms. So Glenn, McKinney and Co. went to as many as time allowed. ``That's why we're here,'' Glenn said. ``We're here to lighten up someone's day. You never know what kind of effect you can have on someone's day just by speaking or talking to them. It's still amazing to me the effect that we have. ``When you have the opportunity, you should seize it as often as possible. You can't put a price on making someone feel better. It's just like that MasterCard commercial. It really is priceless. If we can help someone feel better, I'm all for it.'' Clendenin said the staff, and especially the patients, had been looking forward to the visit for weeks. One cancer patient, whose name Clendenin said she was not permitted to release, was a staff member whose diagnosis was described as ``unpleasant.'' According to Clendenin, the patient, who is big fan of Texas A&AMP;M athletics, had not been in good spirits before getting a visit from Glenn and McKinney, but their words of encouragement cheered her up. Both players told the woman they wanted to see her at Reliant Stadium on Sept. 8 when the Texans host the Cowboys in the regular-season opener. ``St. Joseph's is a faith-based healing ministry, and we always know the impact emotion and humor and good feelings can have on the healing process,'' Clendenin said. ``So when people, particularly the caliber of an NFL player, can come in and share a few minutes of their time and spread a little bit of good will and joy with our patients, it does wonders.'' The tour will be in Austin today, Corpus Christi on Thursday and Victoria on Friday. A five-member team from the Texans' marketing department has been traveling around the state in an SUV, towing a trailer full of Texans goodies for fans at hospitals, malls and college campuses. Different players and cheerleaders meet the team in each new city. ``It has been an overwhelming response,'' Texans marketing programs coordinator Amber Connolly said. ``Fans across the state, not just in Houston, are excited about the Texans. When we visited Nacogdoches Memorial Hospital, we went into one pediatric room, and he felt so special. He said he was a fan of that other team. They later told us that our visit made a big difference, and that he's probably a Texans fan now.'' The Texans have a long way to go to catch up with the Cowboys. In the meantime, they're winning new fans one at a time. 
