Palestinians trapped for a month in Yasser Arafat's compound here erupted in celebration early Thursday morning after Israeli forces withdrew in an American-brokered compromise. But almost at the same time, a gunfight broke out at the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem, setting off fires in the church compound where Palestinian gunmen and non-combatants have been under Israeli siege since early April. Before he knew that the gunfight had subsided relatively quickly and the church compound had only briefly been aflame, Arafat exploded in rage at the news from Bethlehem, shouting: ``This is a crime! This is a crime!'' and calling those who committed it ``terrorists, Nazis and racists.''  As the fires in the church compound died down early Thursday morning, each side blamed the other for starting the gunfight. The skirmish and Arafat's obvious suspicion that Israel was double-dealing underscored how distant even a truce remained, despite the end to the treacherous impasse in Ramallah. Israeli troops and tanks moved out of Ramallah after a convoy of American and British vehicles removed six men wanted by Israel and carried them to a Palestinian prison in Jericho. Under a novel compromise negotiated by President Bush last weekend, the prisoners will be monitored by American and British wardens. That agreement was a rare victory for diplomacy since Israel began its offensive in the West Bank on March 29. At the United Nations in New York on Wednesday night, Secretary-General Kofi Annan announced that he was preparing to disband a controversial commission formed to investigate the events at the refugee camp in Jenin, where Palestinians accuse the Israeli army of killing hundreds of civilians. The Israeli Army strongly denies those claims. Israel first agreed to the United Nations inquiry 12 days ago, then raised objections to both its composition and exact mission. Through a chilling mist, Israeli soldiers grinned and flashed victory signs as they rode out Wednesday night atop the armored vehicles and tanks that have occupied most of Arafat's compound since March 29, when the army invaded Ramallah after a suicide bomber killed 28 Israelis in an attack on a hotel banquet hall during Passover. After Israel's biggest ground offensive in 20 years, Israeli troops have now withdrawn to the outskirts of all towns but Bethlehem. As the soldiers departed, office workers and joyous men with Kalashnikov rifles burst out of Arafat's battered building, delirious at the end of the 34-day siege. Tawfik Tirawi, the director of intelligence for the West Bank, stood on the steps outside, proclaiming, ``This is a victory for the steadfastness of the Palestinian people.'' Palestinian bulldozers rumbled in after midnight to begin clearing the dirt and concrete barricades that Israeli forces had thrown up to block the streets of the Palestinians' unofficial capital. Before the latest fighting between the Israeli forces and the gunmen holed up with non-combatants in the Church of the Nativity, Palestinian and Israeli officials hoped that the release of Arafat could create new ground for negotiation. Gideon Meir, a spokesman for the Israeli foreign minister, said that the Palestinians ``have a great chance now, to show to us, to their own people, to the international community, to show that they really believe in peace.'' But many Palestinian militants, already persuaded that violence was their surest route to statehood, are enraged by Israel's recent offensive. In the West Bank in particular, Arafat's security forces have been diminished and demoralized by the recent raids. Throughout Wednesday, Palestinians in twos and threes wandered up to the barricades topped with barbed wire around Arafat's compound. Mustafa Barghouti, a human rights activist, predicted that Arafat would be strongly criticized for turning over the six prisoners and securing his own freedom. But the mothers of two of the men, who came vainly hoping for a glimpse of their sons, said that they did not blame the Palestinian leader. Arafat is now free to travel for the first time since early December, when Israeli forces penned him into Ramallah. He plans to give a speech to his people on Thursday, and then travel to Egypt and Saudi Arabia in the next 48 hours, said Ahmed Abdel Rahman, a senior adviser. But Sharon warned Wednesday night, in an interview with ABC News program, ``Nightline,'' that if Palestinian violence continues while Arafat is out of the country, Israel would consider not permitting his return. Abdel Rahman said that Arafat was eager to see Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, who met last week with Bush and bluntly warned him that he would risk American credibility with Arab nations if he did not temper his support of Israel. Bush then began pressuring Sharon to accept his compromise proposal to end the siege here. By late last week, Sharon was ready to consider a way out of the standoff, because he was unsuccessful in persuading the Bush administration and other governments to shun Arafat. He could not invade the compound to extract the wanted men because he had promised Bush that he would not harm the Palestinian leader. Sharon was seeking the handover to Israel of four men accused of killing Rehavam Zeevi, Israel's tourism minister, last October. They said that they killed Zeevi in reprisal for Israel's killing of the leader of their faction, the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine. Sharon was also seeking Ahmed Saadat, the new leader of the faction, and Fuad Shubaki, a senior official of the Palestine Liberation Organization accused by Israel of masterminding the attempted smuggling of 50 tons of weapons to Palestinian. Negotiations to hand over the men became stalled on Thursday as Arafat resisted treating all six men the same way. Only the accused killers of the minister have been convicted by the Palestinians so far, in a cursory trial that yielded sentences of 1 to 18 years. But Sharon had demanded that all six men be treated as first-degree murderers and imprisoned in isolation. Abdel Rahman said that the Palestinians finally agreed that Saadat and Shubaki would be held, like the others, but only until they can be tried. ``There is an agreement that we will send them to the jail, and then to the court, and then we will see if they are guilty,'' he said. Toward dusk Wednesday evening, a column of eight American Chevrolet Suburban sport utility vehicles and two British Rover vehicles swept in a cloud of dust through Ramallah, following an escort of Israeli jeeps past the waiting tanks and sport utility vehicles. The streets were almost empty of Palestinians. The vehicles pulled into Arafat's compound, and armed American security men climbed out to organize the handover. After two hours, the convoy headed out of Ramallah and eastward, down through the West Bank hills toward the Dead Sea and the ancient city of Jericho. The prisoners arrived in Jericho to the cheers of a crowd outside the local police headquarters where they will be incarcerated. Not everyone was happy with the compromise that landed the men in their midst. ``Why should these men be convicted, and not those who killed Palestinian children, destroyed homes in the Jenin refugee camp on the heads of their inhabitants, and assassinated political leaders like Abu Ali Mustafa?'' said Youssef al-Qaissi, 46, a civil engineer, referring to the Popular Front leader whose death in an Israeli helicopter strike prompted the assassination of Zeevi. Arafat had cut a deal to end the Israeli siege in Ramallah, but ``he is not superior to any other Palestinian,'' Qaissi added. If Shubaki and Saadat are found not guilty, Israel is certain to demand their extradition. By treaty, each side is obliged to hand over suspects not held in its own jails. Abdul Rahim Malouh, the deputy to Sadaat and a member of the executive committee of the PLO, said by telephone that the delivery of the prisoners to Jericho was ``harmful on the political and internal Palestinian level. The people don't want international jailers, British or American. They want international protection from the massacres committed against them.'' Conversely, Sharon, asked by ABC about his refusal to admit the U.N. inquiry into Jenin, noted that ``I never saw that the United Nations was so determined to send fact-finding commissions to other places,'' such as the Passover bombing. Among the women who lingered near the barricades in Ramallah, two blocks from where their loved ones were still held on Wednesday, was Ifham Quran. Her son Hamdi was convicted of firing the shots that killed Zeevi, the Israeli tourism minister, and she said that her son was being unjustly jailed _ though not because he did not kill Zeevi. ``He is a prisoner who was put in prison for defending his country,'' she said. ``He should not be in prison for that.'' Quran, dressed from head to toe in black, broke into tears and said that Arafat had been pressured in turning over her son. But she refused to criticize him. She said that she did not feel that the Palestinian leader was trading her son's freedom for her own. ``I don't think he would do that,'' she said. Ziad Mousa, a lecturer in linguistics at Bir Zeit University here, brought his two granddaughters by the same barricade. Mousa, who splits his time between here and Irving, Texas, said his younger granddaughter, Zaina, 2, knew only two words: ``Jews'' and ``Sharon.'' ``She is afraid of them,'' he said. He was not optimistic that Israel was prepared to talk peace. ``They are afraid of peace, and they are afraid of war,'' he said. ``They like a state of no war, and no peace. This is the climate where they can survive.'' 
