It's been 10 years since Johnny Carson retired, but not being on TV doesn't mean he doesn't watch. Esquire magazine interviewer Bill Zehme writes that Carson ``delights in crap'' and mentions ``Survivor'' in particular ``as among the most egregious crap he has ever seen.'' ``These people are in just about as much jeopardy as I am having dinner,'' said Carson. ``People forget that there's a crew there. There's a catering service. The crew has to eat. ... I say take 'em and put 'em in the Congo for four days _ see how they do over there. Give 'em some jeopardy. Reminds me of the great Sam Kinison's routine where he's talking about making those commercials with the starving kid in the desert. Couldn't the crew just give him a sandwich?'' Carson said that after Sept. 11, Jay Leno asked former ``Tonight'' show producer Jeff Sotzing to call Carson for advice about when the show, which had been taken off the air temporarily, should return. ``Whenever you feel comfortable,'' was the word, ``just go back and do what you do best. And don't make jokes about the president.'' Steve Martin was unsuccessful when he tried to get Carson to make a surprise appearance on the last year's Oscar telecast, which Martin hosted. ``I told him, `Steve, it is almost an obligatory thing for a standing ovation, so no, I'm going to lay low.' He understood. But he's a very bright kid.''   FURTHER REVELS: Nick Nolte, who by day is making ``The Hulk'' and was reported herein to have ventured by night to Tosca and John's Grill, was at Johnny Foley's Pub on Monday night, ``wandering from room to room in his belted leather coat and crazy hair and wearing the light-up glasses,'' said a TIC spy. Not one of those standoffish movie stars, Nolte said hello to everyone, ``getting plenty of female attention'' and posing with his new pals for snapshots taken by an aide. And another angle on that Bulgari reception: Guest of honor Warren Beatty wanted to meet the Chinese director Zhang Yimou, who was brought to the party with his ``Happy Times'' star Dong Jie, and the two directors chatted through an interpreter. After the screening of ``Happy Times'' the director was rescued from rampaging autograph seekers by his limo driver. Joan Chen, Philip Kaufman, Bai Ling and producer Ed Pressman were among the guests at a party for him at Shanghai 1930. P.S. Oh, you naughtyRalph Nader. TIC's item about Nader dining at Chez Panisse on Friday night brought forth e-mail from an ``irate former Green Party'' member who was one of about 200 people stood up by Nader that night when he failed to show up for a scheduled book signing at Barnes &AMP; Noble in Jack London Square. Nader was supposed to be at the bookstore between 7:30 and 9:30 p.m. The Chez Panisse dinner started late, around 9:15, so maybe he thought he could make both events. But where was he? Does Nader have such an irresistible crush on Annette Bening that he spent the early evening spiffing himself up for dinner? Did he just forget his bookstore gig? Word in the crowd (which included Oakland Mayor Jerry Brown) was that he was somehow hung up, speaking or in traffic, in Berkeley. But the bookstore manager told TIC Wednesday, five days after the lapse, that he still didn't have an official explanation for the missing author.  FAMILY LIFE: That baby boy adopted by Angelina Jolie and Billy Bob Thornton is fine, and in Thailand on the set of ``Beyond Borders'' with his new mom. Pop Thornton spent a little time with the new family when Jolie was on location in Namibia but has been busy touring in Europe and recording in Los Angeles. He'll be on tour in the United States when Jolie and the baby get back to Los Angeles in the first week of June. Everybody's been so very busy lately, so baby hasn't exactly made three so far.  THE GANG THAT SHOOTS STRAIGHT: George Lucas invited his posse of fellow directors _ Francis Ford Coppola, Martin Scorsese, Steven Spielberg, Michael Bay, Saul Zaentz, John Lasseter, Michael Mann and Ron Howard among them _ over to Skywalker Ranch last week to see his new ``Episode II'' and to hear him talk about the advantages of digital movie technology. They ate lunch, too.  A STRAIGHT-ON ASSESSMENT ``I think I'm a very pretty girl. I'm never going to pretend to think otherwise. There are even days I feel I'm fabulously hot and sexy. I'm grateful.'' - Milla Jovovich, who started modeling at 9, on Channel One in the U.K. 
