The New Jersey Nets came back to Indiana with the luxury of a one-game lead and two games remaining to seize their first-round playoff series. That luxury is now stripped to bare necessity. Playing to save their season and stealing the confident edge away from their visitors, the Pacers buried the Nets with a 97-74 victory at raucous Conseco Fieldhouse to force Game 5 at 7 p.m. Thursday at Continental Arena. ``Our guys basically took the night off,'' Nets coach Byron Scott said. ``I thought we played like we were a team with a cushion. They came out very aggressive, like a team should when their backs are against the wall, and we never responded.'' The Nets will have to respond if they want to win their first playoff series since 1984. The game unraveled shortly after Jason Kidd made his first 3-pointer. He missed his next seven shots. After averaging 23 points to lead the Nets in scoring in the first three games, Kidd scored 10 points and missed 11 of 15 shots. ``I had a cold; it's not a big thing,'' said Kidd, who sat out the morning practice. ``I felt great. A lot of my shots I felt were good. They were just between long and short.'' Even when the Nets rallied, pulling within two points, the Pacers turned them aside with brute force, finishing the third quarter on a 21-8 run to put the game away. After the Nets won 52 regular-season games _ no less than a 100 percent improvement from last season _ their success will be judged by one game. ``Fortunately we played 82 games to earn the home-court advantage,'' Kidd said. ``Do or die, this is it. We have to be ready to play the game.'' The Nets were not ready at all, Scott said. ``The bottom line is that they outplayed us,'' he said. ``They wanted the game in the worst way and our guys didn't respond.'' Kenyon Martin led the Nets with 13 points. Keith Van Horn took just four shots; Kerry Kittles took five. The Pacers forced the Nets to shoot jump shots and they missed their share, hitting their playoff low, 39.5 percent. The Pacers shot 53.8 percent. For the Pacers, neither Jermaine O'Neal nor Reggie Miller could lead them to victory. Instead, it was Ron Artest and Austin Croshere who came off the bench to lead Indiana with 18 points each. Miller and O'Neal each had 14 points. The Nets began their season at home with a comeback victory over the Pacers. To prevent their season from ending in the same place against the same team, the top-seeded Nets must put a stop to the comeback. ``We're the eighth seed, the pressure is on them,'' Indiana coach Isiah Thomas said. For Indiana, staving off elimination has become habit in the last three weeks. Since April 10, when the Pacers were in ninth place and almost ready to set up early tee times, they won their last five games and sneaked into the playoffs as the eighth-seeded team. The Pacers entered the fourth quarter with a 68-53 lead and furious momentum. They had stomped on the Nets just as the visitors were trying to make a comeback and never relented for the most crucial part of the third quarter. When the Nets pulled to 47-45 with 7 minutes 25 seconds to play on Kidd's layup off a behind-the-back fast-break pass from Martin in the third quarter, Croshere came off the bench to break their spirit with a 3-pointer. His long-range field goal ignited a 13-0 run, which Croshere capped with a 20-foot jump shot and two free throws to give the Pacers a 60-45 lead. As Kidd continued to struggle in the third quarter, missing open jump shots, the Pacers piled it on until the end of the quarter, extending the run to 21-8. Like Kidd, the Nets never seemed to find their comfort zone. With 1:14 to play in the third quarter, Kidd was driving to the basket when Artest leapt and blocked his shot into the hands of Miller. The Nets, who trailed by 38-33 at halftime, appeared tense and out of sync. Thomas said before the game that he hoped that Kidd's shooting would return to earth. Kidd, the Nets' point guard, had a 47.4 percent shooting percentage through the first three games of this series. He averaged 39.1 percent during the regular season. The Nets followed his offensive lead Tuesday night, shooting 33 percent in the first half. But while Kidd usually compensates with rebounding and fast-break assists, that too was missing Tuesday night as the Nets seemed a step slow. But for the Pacers' own mistakes, they could have pulled away from the skittish Nets. Martin was not much of a factor in the first half because he picked up his second foul guarding O'Neal with 2:58 remaining in the first quarter. O'Neal picked up his third foul with 8:27 to play in the second. In his absence, Artest led the Pacers in scoring with nine points at halftime and grabbed five rebounds. Miller scored six first-half points. The Nets hung in, trying to find inspiration. They got some luck when Lucious Harris banked in an off-balance 3-point heave at the first-quarter buzzer, cutting the Pacers' lead to 22-19. The Nets would need more than luck, however, especially on a night when nothing seemed to be going right. 
