On a night when Pedro Martinez was a JAG (just another guy), Manny Ramirez and his orchestra were something out of the ordinary. With five RBIs and two homers, Ramirez _ who took over the American League lead in RBIs (31) _ overcame a couple of blips in the field to lead the Red Sox to a 15-3 win Wednesday night over the Baltimore Orioles, ending the homestand on a high note. Ramirez got help from Nomar Garciaparra (three RBIs), Jose Offerman (on base his first five times with four hits and two RBIs), Rey Sanchez (three hits), a two-run homer by Brian Daubach, and a homer by Trot Nixon on a night when the offense (16 hits) rallied for the human Martinez. Martinez, who had not given up a run in two starts against the Orioles (13 innings), improved to 4-0, but the 33,274 on hand didn't see the Best of Pedro _ only visages of the vintage Martinez. He lasted five innings, allowing 6 hits, 2 walks, 3 runs, and striking out five. He threw 89 pitches. And with a six-run lead at the time, the Sox decided to save his arm. In 13 1/3 innings at Fenway, he's allowed 14 earned runs for a 9.45 ERA, as opposed to 21 scoreless innings on the road. With Offerman (walk) and Garciaparra (single) on base, Orioles starter Sean Douglass left a changeup over the fat of the plate and Ramirez didn't miss it in the first inning, giving the Sox a 3-0 lead. It was his eighth homer of the season. Martinez retired the first two batters, but designated hitter David Segui lined a double to left-center before Martinez bore down and struck out Jeff Conine. But in the second inning, Tony Batista ended Martinez's scoreless string at 16 1/3 innings when the Orioles third baseman belted a 2-1 offering into the left-field screen. Martinez followed that up by walking Marty Cordova, but after striking out the weak-hitting Brook Fordyce, Mike Bordick doubled into left-field corner, where Ramirez had problems digging out the ball, which scored Cordova and cut the deficit to 3-2. The Sox followed that with Damonball in the third. Leadoff man Johnny Damon doubled (his first of two hits), to stretch his hitting streak to 12 games, and advanced to third when Offerman, looking to sacrifice, beat out a perfectly placed bunt to the third base side of the mound. Offerman's steal of second drew an errant throw from Fordyce (the ball landed in center field) and allowed Damon to score and make it 4-2. Orioles skipper Mike Hargrove didn't walk the next batter, Ramirez, but he ordered Douglass to pitch around him and the pitcher wound up walking him. With runners at the corners and the infield drawn in, Daubach lined a single through the gap between first and second to boost the lead to 5-2. OK, Martinez may not have had his best stuff, but Ramirez didn't have his best leather. The Sox left fielder lost Batista's high fly to left in the fourth. Expecting it to hit the wall, the ball never made it that far, hitting on the warning track for a double. Cordova then hit a ground-rule double down the left-field line and it was a two-run game. How about the night Offerman had? He had reached on a walk, a bunt single, a double, and a single to right in his first four plate appearances. The fourth-inning double put runners at second and third with two outs (Sanchez had singled with one out), and both scored on Garciaparra's two-run single. That was followed by Ramirez's ninth homer and second on the night, a 335-foot shot to right field, making it 9-3. Mr. Red Sox _ Johnny Pesky _ was kidding with some of the players prior to the game about hitting a homer around Pesky's Pole. Ramirez came fairly close to it on his second home run. The Sox added their 10th run in the sixth on Garciaparra's line-drive sacrifice fly to left, driving in Sanchez, who led off with a single and advanced to third on Offerman's single. The Sox had a chance to give the bullpen some work as Rolando Arrojo pitched two scoreless innings, a much-needed effort after allowing seven runs in his previous 12 innings, a five-game span. The Sox poured it on in the eighth with five runs. Nixon homered to right when his liner hit the railing of the Sox bullpen, and Offerman knocked in two more with a ground ball single up the middle through a drawn-in infield before Daubach, who had crushed two outs to right field, got all of a fastball and knocked it into the right-field bleachers. Casey Fossum pitched the eighth and Rich Garces finished it without much resistance from the Orioles, who left town a little red-faced with Wednesday night's horrendous pitching performance. 
