When things are going bad, even the right decisions find a way to backfire. The Astros had the right hitters at the plate, only to come away mostly empty-handed Wednesday. Octavio Dotel wanted a fastball away. Vladimir Guerrero still found a way to drive the pitch _ to the opposite field, no less _ for a three-run homer. It was the recipe for another hard-to-swallow loss as the Montreal Expos rallied behind the two-homer performance of Guerrero for a 5-4 victory over the Astros. The Astros are 2-6 in games decided by one run. ``We haven't been able to come up big in one-run games,'' said first baseman Jeff Bagwell. ``Those things will turn around. We're going to come up with some big hits. We're going to make the good pitch. We're definitely going to play better.'' The Astros dropped their second straight game and have lost eight of their last 12. The Astros can take consolation in this: Most of the National League has yet to figure out Guerrero. Guerrero leads the majors with a .383 batting average and 32 RBIs and has nine homers. In the fourth inning Wednesday, he sent a 1-1 fastball from Shane Reynolds into the Crawford Boxes. In the seventh, Guerrero ripped a 2-0 fastball from Dotel just over the right-field wall for a decisive three-run homer. ``(Guerrero) is a big guy with long arms who covers the plate,'' said Reynolds, who held the Expos to one run through six innings. ``He covers all of the outside part of the plate. You've just got to hopefully get him on a night when you make a good pitch and he just makes an out.'' Dotel, one of the surest things in baseball as a setup man last year, continued his off-and-on struggles. After Reynolds allowed consecutive singles to Michael Barrett and Brad Wilkerson to start the seventh, Astros manager Jimy Williams went to his bullpen. Dotel allowed a sacrifice fly to pinch hitter Henry Rodriguez. After Dotel struck out Peter Bergeron and hit Jose Vidro with a pitch, he fell behind 2-0 to Guerrero, throwing both pitches carefully away from the righthanded hitter. ``I was trying to go away, away, away,'' Dotel said. ``I didn't want to challenge him, because he's a free swinger. You have to be careful with him.'' Dotel's 2-0 fastball was right where he wanted it, but the long-armed Guerrero reached out and got just enough to drive the ball to right field with the wind blowing in. Orlando Merced made a leaping try at the wall, the ball just falling into the seats to give the Expos a 5-3 lead. ``You have to try and give him pitches he might chase. Unfortunately, it didn't work,'' Williams said. ``When you go opposite-field, there's not a whole lot more you can do.'' In 2001, Dotel emerged as one of the top setup men in baseball, going 6-3 with a 1.93 ERA in 57 relief appearances. Opponents batted .182 against Dotel, fourth-best among NL relievers. It has been a different story this season. Dotel suffered his first loss of the season and his second blown save. He has allowed four homers in 14 relief appearances. The Astros bullpen has four blown saves in seven opportunities. Overall, Houston relievers are 1-5 with a 5.58 ERA. Lance Berkman gave the Astros their only lead with a three-run homer off righthander Tony Armas Jr. _ Berkman's major-league-leading 11th of the season _ in the sixth inning. Held scoreless through five innings, the Astros wiped out a 1-0 deficit after Biggio reached base on an error by Expos third baseman Fernando Tatis. Merced followed with a walk, and after a strikeout by Bagwell, Berkman crushed a 1-2 curveball into the Crawford Boxes. The Astros attempted to rally in the seventh when Brad Ausmus led off with a walk and advanced to second on a single by Jose Vizcaino. Morgan Ensberg failed to get down a bunt attempt on the first pitch from reliever Britt Reames and grounded into a double play on the next pitch. ``I took the bunt off,'' Williams said. ``It didn't work.'' The next batter, Biggio, was hit by a pitch, setting up an infield chopper by Merced that went past Lee Stevens at first base to pull the Astros within 5-4. Reames then placed an 84 mph curveball on the outside corner of the plate for a called third strike on Bagwell to end the inning. Bagwell and Biggio are a combined 0-for-16 in the series, which concludes today. ``We had our chances,'' Williams said. ``We had the right people up. It just didn't work. But there were some good signs.'' The Astros' Daryle Ward struck out in the eighth inning, ending his 15-game hitting streak. 
