Two days after Florida authorities disclosed that the state had lost a 5-year-old Miami girl in its custody without noticing her absence for more than a year, and the girl's mother, a formerly crack addict, said the authorities took no better care of her daughter than she did. The mother, Gloria Wilson, 28, said in a telephone interview from her home in Cleveland that the Florida Department of Children and Families still had not tried to contact her. ``I'm really upset because I don't understand how the system could lose a child for over 15 months and not notify the biological family at all,'' Wilson said. State and local officials realized that the girl, Rilya, was missing only when a caseworker tried to check on the girl and did not find her at the grandmother's house. The agency and the grandmother apparently each thought the other had custody of Rilya, who was 4 when she disappeared. The agency blamed the counselor in charge of Rilya's case and a supervisor, both of whom quit last month under pressure for what the department said was the mishandling of another case. Wilson She said she lives on limited Social Security disability benefits and is trying to arrange for affordable transportation to Miami to cooperate with the investigation. The police said the mother and grandmother are not considered suspects because the case is still considered a missing person's probe, not a criminal investigation. The authorities say they have no idea whether someone took the girl to deliver to her mother or some other relative or if she was the victim of foul play. Wilson said she not seen the girl, had no idea where the child's father was and did not know what happened to her. Wilson said she had lived in Miami for most of her life but in 1999 had moved to be near family so she could re-start her life off drugs. She claims that the woman in whose care her children were placed is not their biological grandmother but rather Rilya's godmother and that she has not been in contact with the woman for several years since her parental rights were terminated. The agency declined to discuss the mother but said it believed the woman with whom Rilya was living at the time of her disappearance was a blood relative. Wilson said that Rilya's name was proof that, despite her own failings, she cared for the girl. ``The letters in her name mean `remember I love you always,'' Wilson said. 
