White House lawyer Alberto Gonzales said Thursday that appellate court vacancies are creating ``judicial emergencies'' across the country and urged the Senate to confirm presidential nominations that have been pending for at least a year. Gonzales gave a spirited defense of Texas Supreme Court Justice Priscilla Owen, nominated to a seat on the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. Owen is under scrutiny over campaign contributions she received from Enron Corp. officials and judicial rulings that favored the Houston-based company. ``I think once members of the Senate Judiciary Committee study carefully Justice Owen's record, they will conclude, as we have, that this is a woman of impeccable integrity,'' Gonzales said. President Bush nominated Owen on May 9, 2001, to fill the vacancy on the New Orleans-based 5th Circuit Court, which handles appeals from lower courts in Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. The Senate Judiciary Committee has not scheduled a hearing on the nomination. The committee chairman, Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., has vowed to bring Owen before the panel for a full hearing, although committee staff was unaware of when that would occur. Gonzales, in calling for action from the Senate, noted a backlog of nominees awaiting Senate confirmation. ``We have judicial emergencies across the country,'' he said. Since the Democrats took control of the Senate last June, 10 of 29 nominees to the appellate courts have had hearings and nine have been confirmed. U.S. District Judge Charles Pickering of Mississippi was rejected. News reports about Owen's receipt of campaign contributions from an Enron political action committee and individual officers of the company prompted Leahy to ask the White House for a review of those donations. ``We've looked at that very carefully here, as well as lawyers with the Department of Justice. We don't see a problem whatsoever,'' Gonzales said. Owen accepted $8,600 in campaign contributions from the energy company before it filed for bankruptcy last year, according to a review by Texans for Public Justice, a nonprofit, nonpartisan watchdog group in Austin. In a case before the Texas Supreme Court that involved Enron and the Spring Independent School District, Owen did not recuse herself before joining a unanimous decision by the high court that saved Enron $224,989 in taxes. Texas Supreme Court justices must run for re-election and are allowed to raise money for those campaigns. Gonzales, who served on the court from 1999 to 2000, and other justices involved in the ruling also received contributions from Enron. In addition to questions about Owen's participation in the ruling, Texans for Public Justice also questioned Gonzales' review of her actions. ``Gonzales' analysis of Owen and Enron is not an arms-length review. Al Gonzales was a justice on the Supreme Court and a lawyer with Vinson &AMP; Elkins, which is Enron's outside counsel,'' said Chris Feldman, a Texans for Public Justice lawyer. Chief Justice Tom Phillips of the Texas Supreme Court said less than 1 percent of Owen's campaign contributions came from Enron. In 2000, when she was unopposed, she returned contributions. ``Questioning her integrity is outrageous. She is a person with absolute moral rectitude,'' said Phillips, an outspoken advocate for the appointment of state Supreme Court justices. Leahy has blamed six years of Republican obstruction to President Bill Clinton's judicial nominees for the backlog of vacancies in federal courts. Richard Paez, Clinton's appointee to the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco, had to wait four years before he was confirmed by the Senate when it was under Republican majority rule. Gonzales said there has been a lot of bitterness about the treatment of the previous administration's nominees. ``Regrettably, this president has suffered because of it,'' he said. (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.) Meanwhile, the White House is pushing for hearings on its nomination of Miguel Estrada to the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, and other controversial nominees that include Owen and Michael McConnell of Utah, selected for a vacancy on the 10th Circuit Court of Appeals in Denver. Leahy said earlier this year that he expects to have hearings on nominations for which ``consensus will be difficult, including such nominees as Judge Priscilla Owen, Professor Michael McConnell and Miguel Estrada.'' Gonzales said he has tried to ``impress upon Senator Leahy how important it is that we get hearings for these nominees as quickly as possible.'' ``Some of these nominations have been pending for over a year _ since May 9 in the case of Miguel Estrada and Justice Owen,'' Gonzales said. 
