On the last day of April, Pepperdine prepared itself for a mayhem-filled May. The Waves were convincing in beating a hot, 20th-ranked USC club 7-1 at Dedeaux Field Tuesday night. But what Pepperdine does over the next month determines if its season is a success. Pepperdine's (23-24) only avenue to the NCAA Regionals is winning the West Coast Conference championship series on May 24-26. The road grew increasingly bumpy when the Waves were swept at Portland last weekend. Still one game ahead of second-place Gonzaga in the Coast Division, Pepperdine plays three games at Santa Clara this weekend and a makeup game at St. Mary's on Monday. Both teams are 1{ games out of first. Two of three previous games between the Waves and Gaels in Moraga were postponed. When the Gaels play in Malibu from May 10-12, a Saturday doubleheader will make up the other rainout. The following weekend, Pepperdine plays at Gonzaga to finish a stretch of 13 games in 17 games. ``We battled up at Portland and things just didn't turn out how we wanted it,'' said Waves center fielder Ed Montague, whose two hits included a single during a five-run first inning. ``Beating USC like this really can turn things around for us, especially when we're facing three teams in our (division). So it's going to be a big couple weeks.'' James Carroll, one of three Alabama transfers on the Waves' roster, was an unlikely candidate to tranquilize the Trojans' juiced-up offense, which had scored in double figures a school-record eight consecutive games while hitting .405 with 102 runs scored and 16 homers. Carroll (1-2) threw 14 innings in 10 relief appearances before making his first start. But he was far more effective than his 10.43 earned-run average, allowing one earned run on five hits over a season-high five innings. USC's (28-18) scorching 2-5 hitters -- Michael Moon (.486 in the previous eight games), Alberto Concepcion (.600), Bill Peavey (.500) and Joey Metropoulos (.464) -- went 1 for 12 against Carroll and Robert Hobbs. ``I'm glad I found out about that now. I would have rather not known that before,'' Carroll said when informed of the Trojans' recent batting prowess. ``I wasn't really nervous, I was more excited. I just wanted to give us a good outing and get us back on our feet.'' -- Notes: Junior Brian Bannister, the Trojans' most effective reliever last season who underwent offseason shoulder surgery, has decided to take a redshirt year rather than pitch in the final month, which he is healthy enough to do now. Sophomore pitcher Fraser Dizard (elbow) will also redshirt. ... Sixty-four of 329 runs allowed by USC pitchers this season are unearned, including six of seven in Tuesday's game. 
