Paul Martinez took it in stride when his 1989 pickup failed the state's new, tougher emissions test Wednesday at a north Fort Worth auto repair shop. ``I don't have a choice,'' said Martinez, 57, a Bell Helicopter assembler from Fort Worth. ``I fix it and comply with the new regulations. But how?'' That was a question asked throughout North Texas on Wednesday as cars and trucks failed the new emissions test designed to improve air quality. The new tests _ required in Tarrant, Dallas, Denton, Collin and Harris counties beginning Wednesday _ raise the cost of inspecting a vehicle from $25.50 to $39.50 in Tarrant, Dallas and Harris counties. The tests are more extensive than previous emissions tests. The new tests are expected to significantly reduce air pollution in the urban centers of North Texas and Houston, where 10 million people live. Those areas have until 2007 to reduce ozone smog to levels that comply with the federal Clean Air Act. Half the air pollution in North Texas comes from vehicles. The new test checks for vehicle emissions of nitrogen oxides, a component of ozone smog. State officials expect about 12 percent of the vehicles to fail the test, although some Metroplex stations Wednesday reported failure rates much higher. Vehicles that fail the test must be repaired before they will be given a state registration sticker. ``That's what we're looking for, cars that need fixing, because it will reduce air pollution,'' said Hazel Barbour, mobile source programs manager with the Texas Natural Resource Conservation Commission. The pace of emissions testing slowed considerably Wednesday from the lines of motorists who jammed inspection sites until late Tuesday hoping to avoid the new requirements. Instead, motorists _ apparently resigned to the new, higher prices _ scoured the Metroplex for the limited testing sites. Some endured delays caused by technical problems. ``I went to a half-dozen places and this is the only one I could find today doing the new test,'' said Bill Staples of Saginaw, who got his 1998 sedan tested at Route 66 State Inspections. ``My tag was up yesterday and I couldn't get in,'' Staples said. Of the roughly 2,300 testing stations that conducted the old tests in the five targeted counties, about 1,500 have closed, said Ed Martin, technical advisor to the Texas State Inspection Association. ``At 12 o'clock, they shut off everybody who did not have new and operational equipment, including everybody who did everything the state asked them to do but couldn't get equipment installed on time,'' Martin said. As of 5 p.m. Wednesday, 375 stations were conducting the new tests in North Texas, including 101 stations in Tarrant, 204 in Dallas, 30 in Denton and 40 in Collin, said Maj. Bob Burroughs, Texas Department of Public Safety vehicle inspection program manager. Harris County had 338 sites, he said. To conduct the tests, the stations must purchase about $40,000 in equipment, including a computer analyzer and a dynamometer, a treadmill-like device that tests emissions from a working engine. Some stations were unable to get their equipment delivered in time for Wednesday's startup, but about 700 stations should be operating in North Texas by the end of the month, Burroughs said. At the Route 66 shop in North Richland Hills, station owner Tim Baker struggled with the new equipment. ``We've had some equipment problems,'' Baker said. A temperamental gas-cap tester _ designed to detect leaking gas fumes _ ``wouldn't communicate properly with the analyzer,'' he said. At the Azle Avenue Garage, where the dynamometer has been operating for two weeks, owner Butch Hester studied the result column on Martinez's one-page Texas Vehicle Inspection Report that showed three test failures. Hester said he would check the smog equipment for $65 and apply the cost toward repair of the truck. Of seven cars Hester tested Wednesday, four failed _ Martinez's pickup, a 1984 sport utility vehicle, a 1992 pickup and a 1999 pickup. Three of the vehicles would have passed the easier test that ended at midnight Tuesday, Hester said. Of the 45 cars tested Tuesday under the old regulations, one-fourth would have failed the more extensive check. ``It seems like it's working,'' Hester said. At the SpeeDee Oil Change &AMP; Tune Up on Mid-Cities Boulevard in North Richland Hills, two of 15 cars tested by mid-afternoon Wednesday had failed the test. No statewide figures were available on the numbers of vehicles that failed the new tests Wednesday. (Visit the Star-Telegram's online services on the World Wide Web: www.star-telegram.com) nn 
