Armed with a high-powered rife, a central Texas man ambushed a trio of law enforcement officers Thursday, killing one and wounding two, when they tried to search his remote property for stolen vehicles. Dozens of heavily armed officers used search dogs and helicopters to search for Marshall Tallent, 34, a resident of the community of Shive in Hamilton County who officials believe attacked the officers. Tallent was still at large Thursday night. ``He literally ambushed them,'' said Charlie Morgan, a senior corporal for the Texas Department of Public Safety in Waco. The three officers ``were at the front of the house getting a consent-to-search warrant, and he opened fire. They didn't know what hit them.'' The names of the law enforcement officers have not been released. The two injured officers _ a DPS trooper and a county deputy sheriff _ were being treated for gunshot wounds at Scott &AMP; White Hospital in Temple, said Brenda Wallin, a hospital spokeswoman. Neither had life-threatening injuries, she said. When the shooting started about 4 p.m. Thursday, one officer was in the house, one was on the porch and one was standing by a car outside. The first officer hit was the one who died, Morgan said. The other two then moved to the front of the house and tried to shield themselves from the gunman, who kept them pinned down for 70 minutes. During that time several other officers arrived on the scene, as well as an armored vehicle and a SWAT team from Woodway. Shortly after 5 p.m., the gunman shot and wounded the other two officers and then slipped away in heavy woods surrounding the house, Morgan said. ``We just don't know where he is now,'' Hamilton County District Attorney B.J. Shepherd said. Tallent is believed to be armed with the rifle. Tom Vinger, a DPS spokesman, said that when the three officers arrived at the home, they tried to get consent from a female resident to search for stolen vehicles. The woman is believed to be Tallent's wife or ex-wife. Tallent has a criminal record but has not been convicted of any violent crimes, Shepherd said. Authorities had not had any problems with Tallent since he got out of prison two or three years ago, he said. Kenny Jones, an employee at the Gem Dandy Texaco in Hamilton, said he met Tallent once. ``He's a real big guy,'' Jones said. Shive is about 60 miles west of Waco. The population in 1990 was 61 people. Morgan said the area being searched is covered with trees and brush. Late Thursday, a steady stream of law enforcement vehicles rode back and forth along the deserted country road leading to Tallent's property. Two helicopters were searching in the sky above, and canine search units could be heard in the distance. The incident has shocked the tiny community. ``This is a rural community where everybody knows everybody,'' Shepherd said. ``We just don't think anybody out here is capable of doing something like this.'' Fort Worth Star-Telegram staff writer Bill Teeter contributed to this report. (Visit the Star-Telegram's online services on the World Wide Web: www.star-telegram.com) nn 
