Five times a day, 50 Muslims prayed to Allah, kneeling between the centuries-old columns on the church's uneven stone floor. Every morning, between the Muslim prayers, robed Franciscan monks led morning mass. The smell of incense mixed with tear gas, lobbed into a courtyard by Israeli soldiers. Before Wednesday, such were the bizarre rhythms of life for the men trapped inside the Church of the Nativity, a stone compound that dates to the 4th century, marking the spot that Christians believe Jesus was born. More than 200 Palestinians sought shelter in the church on April 2, when the advancing Israeli army, as part of a massive military operation in response to a wave of suicide attacks, surrounded the church in the heart of this Palestinian city. Among the group were militants wanted by Israel, Palestinian national security officers and civilians. All were men. A fierce exchange of gunfire erupted outside the church and a fire raged for about a hour inside the church compound early Thursday, witnesses said. Palestinian officials said it was an Israeli attempt to storm the building, which Israel denied. The Israeli army said at many as 40 militant leaders remain holed up in the church, among more than 150 people men believed to still be inside. The largest group to leave peacefully, 26 men, were released by the Israeli army on Wednesday morning after questioning. They left the church Tuesday under a negotiated settlement. Their stories paint of picture of hardship, solidarity, and most of all, boredom. They recalled the church, one of the holiest sites in Christendom, as their own prison. But several of the men, all Muslim, said they owed their survival to the Christian monks who live there. The monks provided food, candles, small portable radios, even copies of the Quran. ``The priests were very good people. They helped the wounded. They shared food together. We faced the same suffering,'' said Abu Ismaed, 25, a Palestinian national security officer. One of the men who led Muslim prayer, Mohammed Abu Armis, a 28-year-old construction worker, said the church was now holy to Christians and Muslims. Before the standoff began, he said he had only set foot in the church twice. ``I will keep visiting it,'' he said, ``because of two reasons: the martyrs (five people have been killed by Israeli snipers) and it protected us.'' The men denied being held hostage by the gunmen, and said they left of their own will. They said they stayed for so long because they were afraid of the Israeli soldiers outside. One insisted there was no tension between the civilians and the gunmen, but he didn't want to answer questions about how much control the gunmen held over the rest. Several of the men who left the church said there was no urgency on the part of many to come out. ``It's an individual decision,'' one said. There were no showers. No change of clothes. There were mattresses to sleep on, but often shooting at night, between the gunmen in the church and Israeli soldiers outside. There was food in the church, but only enough for one meal a day. The monks prepared giant pots of pasta, or vegetable soup or rice and beans. But there was no bread. ``For 31 days, I didn't eat bread,'' said Hasan Mohammed Shehadeh, from a hospital bed. ``I am an old man, 54.'' He looked older. Wisps of hair were clumped together and curled past his ears. His beard was bushy, like all of the men, after a month of no shaving. He suffers from diabetes and high blood pressure, he said. He began to weep as he recalled the ordeal. The men spent most of their time in the oldest part of the church, where the walls are the thickest. Reading material consisted of the Quran and Christian pamphlets and magazines. Some listened to radios to hear the latest news from the outside world. They followed updates of the Israeli offensive through other West Bank cities, and reports of their own siege. They talked politics. One kept a journal. They spoke on cellular phones with their families. And they prayed. There was plenty of time for that. Robert W. Gee can be contacted at bgee(at)coxnews.com. ENDIT Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
