Wilco ``Yankee Hotel Foxtrot'' Nonesuch Records Critic's rating: Two and a half stars of a possible five Wilco's latest CD, ``Yankee Hotel Foxtrot,'' was destined to be a critics' darling before anyone had heard it. The world loves an underdog, and in rock 'n' roll they don't come more deserving than the Chicago-based quartet. Fiercely and justifiably loved by many for their rootsy sound, the band had this, their sixth CD, thrown back in their faces by their label last year. Too weird, the Reprise label honchos said, and we're not gonna put it out. So the band soldiered on and has now released the exact same CD on Nonesuch _ becoming heroes to all who think that major-label executives wouldn't recognize good music if it bit 'em on the behind. And this, too, is justifiable. What isn't, however, is praising ``Yankee Hotel Foxtrot'' to the skies, because it's just not that impressive a CD. It's certainly ``different,'' I'll grant you that. Working with highly regarded producer Jim O'Rourke, the band has added odd sounds, blips and pure white noise on most of the tracks. The effect is Wilco hanging out with Stereolab (the English group O'Rourke has produced) to produce something that now and again sounds like Mercury Rev. This is not, however, an improvement. The noises and atmospherics feel bolted on; they don't serve the songs or enhance them. And underneath the frosting lies a collection of skewed little art-alt-country songs that chase their tails more often than they deliver on their promise. There are definitely exceptions to this, ``Radio Cure'' and ``Heavy Metal Drummer'' among them. And Wilco is to be lauded for not simply banging out an easy-as-pie collection of knockabout, rootsy tunes. They are striving for something, a sort of roots-rock chamber music, and when they get to where they're going, they will no doubt deliver a masterpiece. But ``Yankee Hotel Foxtrot'' isn't it _ it feels far too contrived and self-conscious to succeed as a unified piece of music, and to justify all of its odd twists and turns. (Dave Ferman is the pop music critic for the Fort Worth Star-Telegram. You can call him at (817) 390-7839, or e-mail: dferman(at)star-telegram.com. Visit the Star-Telegram's online services on the World Wide Web: www.star-telegram.com) nn 
