After saying his goal was to avoid upsetting the financial markets, Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill did just that on Wednesday by sparring with members of a congressional committee about the nation's financial condition and leaving some investors with doubts about his willingness to defend the weakening dollar. In testimony before the Senate Banking Committee, O'Neill stressed that nothing he said should be interpreted as any change in the longstanding position of the United States that a strong dollar is good for the economy. He expressed considerable annoyance that traders routinely read more into his statements about the dollar and the economy than he intends, simply to generate volatility in the markets. But he said nothing to suggest that he would intervene to stem a continuing slide in the dollar's value, noting that government action to support the currency cannot be effective in the long run if it runs counter to the collective judgment of the financial markets. ``I'm saying I think there's a real doubt about the effectiveness of interventions or words about interventions,'' O'Neill said in response to a question about whether he might support an action like the coordinated effort by the seven big industrial democracies in 1985 to bring down the dollar's value. On a day when the dollar was already losing ground against the euro and the Japanese yen, O'Neill's comments were taken as a green light by currency traders to keep pushing the dollar down. By the end of the day, the dollar was trading at 127.45 yen, down from 128.57 on Tuesday and 134 yen in early February. The euro rose to 90.55 cents, up from 90.03 cents a day earlier and 85 cents in late January. ``I think there's concern on part of traders that this represents a stealth move away from the strong dollar policy toward a more laissez-faire dollar policy,'' said Lara Rhame, senior currency economist at Brown Brothers Harriman in New York. ``Markets now need to be sold on the dollar, and O'Neill has never been interested in doing that.'' While O'Neill's comments were taken by currency markets to undermine the dollar, his testimony emphasized the fundamental strengths of the economy and signaled again his unwillingness to drive the dollar down deliberately to make American exports more competitive on international markets. The Treasury Department controls whether and when the United States, through the Federal Reserve, buys and sells dollars and other currencies to raise or lower the value of the dollar. O'Neill's immediate predecessors, Lawrence H. Summers and Robert E. Rubin, both adhered almost slavishly to the same language in describing currency policy, saying a strong dollar was ``in the interests of the United States.'' Since taking office 15 months ago, O'Neill has more or less stuck to that formulation, but often with an added emphasis that the dollar's value is the byproduct of a fundamentally strong economy and the perception that the United States offers the world's best opportunities for investment. But to currency traders, his slight variance from the established formulation has been enough to justify testing O'Neill's commitment to the dollar's value almost every time he speaks about the subject. The dollar has been weakening for several months in part because of a perception among international investors that the recovery from last year's recession might be tepid and that corporate profits and stock prices in the United States might therefore remain depressed. But several members of the banking committee pointed to evidence that some countries, including Japan and China, were deliberately keeping their currencies undervalued to give their exporters an advantage in world markets. After O'Neill's appearance, economists and representatives of business groups and organized labor told the committee that the dollar remains so overvalued that the United States is having trouble competing internationally, costing jobs and profits at home. ``The dollar is way out of whack and everybody knows it,'' said Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers. (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.) But there is also growing concern that the United States is vulnerable because of its large current account deficit. The current account measures the balance between the inflow of goods, services and capital into the United States and the outflow. It has been running at a deficit of more than 4 percent of the economy's total output in recent years, and after falling slightly last year is expected to rise again this year, putting it at a level that in other nations has often presaged an economic crisis. Some economists say that if the flow of capital into the United States dried up, the dollar could fall sharply in value, reigniting the threat of inflation and putting pressure on the Fed to raise interest rates. But other economists say the deficit merely reflects the relative attractiveness of investing in the United States and does not present any particular threat to the dollar. That was the position taken by O'Neill on Wednesday _ and it led him into several sharp exchanges with the banking committee's chairman, Sen. Paul Sarbanes, D-Md. ``I am really taken aback that we have a secretary of the treasury who doesn't perceive any problems associated with this large current account deficit,'' Sarbanes said. O'Neill replied that most of the steps to reduce the deficit _ like limiting the inflow of foreign capital or of imports _ would be like cutting off an arm because it might someday become diseased. ``I just don't understand the thinking that creates what I consider to be an artificial, intellectually useful construct, and then take it to a policy conclusion that does damage,'' O'Neill said. 
