ART ADV.: Photos with KERRY-PROFILE are being transmitted to NYT Photo Service subscribers. For Immediate Release 	The Boston Globe plans to move the following NEWS/FEATURE stories for use by NYTimes News Service clients.  For questions about stories, please call Jean Conley at the Boston Globe, 617-929-2597. For individual purchase of budgeted graphics or photos please call 212-556-4204 or 888-603-1036. 	All stories will bear the BOS designator. 	WASHINGTON (w) 	ATTACK-CUSTOMS (Washington) _ The US Customs Service, acknowledging that it needs to increase its ability to detect radioactive material that is shipped to the United States, says that it is doubling its capacity to screen incoming packages. By Robert Schlesinger. 750 words. 	NATIONAL (a) 	HARVARD-NESSON (Undated) - Early this month law legend Charles Nesson tried to create ``a teachable moment'' out of a controversy over a Harvard student's defense of the word ``nigger'' _ proposing that there be a mock trial that would probe the boundaries of free speech and hate speech. Instead, the controversy ballooned, leaving Nesson sitting in the back row of the torts class he teaches for the rest of the semester. By Patrick Healy. 1000 words. 	CHURCH-VOICE (Wellesley, Mass.) _ In the basement of a parish school at Saint John the Evangelist Church, a quiet revolution is brewing. A group that started three months ago as a listening session for parishioners upset about clergy sexual abuse has grown explosively in the past few weeks, drawing about 4,200 supporters from 36 states and 19 countries. By Michael Paulson. 1600 words. 	COMMENTARY (k) 	RELIGION-COLUMN (Undated) -- Eds: The religion column is not available this week. 	LEHIGH-COLUMN (Undated) _ Eds: Scot Lehigh is writing on a local topic. His column will not move. 	JACKSON-COLUMN (Undated) _ Eds: Derrick Jackson is writing on a local topic. His column will not move. 	LIFESTYLE (l) 	KERRY-PROFILE-ART (Washington, D.C.) _ John Kerry hasn't said whether he'll run for president, but he's hoping that people will get to know him _ and like him. More often these days, he's showing his personal side. By Sally Jacobs. 3440 words. 	ENTERTAINMENT/ARTS (e) 	MEDIA-COLUMN (Undated) _ The refugee camp in the West Bank town of Jenin, which was the site of furious fighting between Israelis and Palestinians, is now the focus of an equally intense battle for world opinion. It is also a classic example of the profound differences between US and European media coverage of the conflict in the Middle East. By Mark Jurkowitz. 	MAGAZINE-REVIEW (Undated) _ The latest in pop magazines. By Globe Staff. 	BOOK-HATED (Undated) _ Gore Vidal's latest collection of essays undoubtedly will reaffirm each camp's position _ and there are always at least two _ on the prolific novelist, essayist, and playwright. The title of the book, ``Perpetual War for Perpetual Peace: How We Got To Be So Hated,'' provides a hint of what is to come. By Diego Ribadeneira. 830 words. 	FOOD (d) 	FOOD-COLUMN (Undated) _ It's spring, and menus are changing accordingly. By Alison Arnett. 1230 words. 	FINANCIAL (f) 	BIOTECH-STOCKS (Undated) _ On Wall Street, they're calling it biowreck. Biotech stocks nationally and locally are down 25 percent since the start of the year. A string of bad product news, starting with ImClone's surprise rejection by the FDA, has sparked a wide exodus from the sector. By Jeff Krasner. 1000 words. 	The Boston Globe 
