Greg Ray was sitting at A.J. Foyt's desk the other day, staring at the trophies the Texas icon has collected over the past 30 or 40 years. Trophies? Ray has plenty of his own collecting dust. He was in Houston looking to borrow a little magic. Armed with a new contract from A.J. Foyt Racing beginning with the 86th Indianapolis 500 later this month, Ray insisted his passion for the Indy Racing League is as strong as ever. Strangely, Ray _ the self-described ``biggest kid on the block'' _ sounded a quart low on his trademark enthusiasm. And who could blame him? Dismissed from Team Menard last summer after a series of crashes ... bounced from Kelley Racing because of sponsorship considerations in late February ... a former series champion reduced to spectator for the first four races of 2002 ... Ray's swagger had taken several direct hits during the last year. ``I do feel I have something to offer here, professionally,'' Ray, of Plano, said into the phone. ``At the end of the day, you have to control the checkers on your board. This is big-league motorsports, and things don't always come easy. Regardless of past championships and wins, there are a set of circumstances that put these cars on the racetrack. But I've put it all behind me now.'' His parting with car owner John Menard _ the man for whom Ray won the 1999 IRL championship _ was amicable, Ray insisted. ``We're great friends and have continued our relationship on a professional basis,'' said Ray, whose five IRL victories all have been scored with Team Menard. ``There's no ill feeling there.'' And his parting with Tom Kelley _ the man who replaced Ray with Al Unser Jr. and his sponsorship dollars eight days before the start of this season? There was a long silence at the other end of the phone. ``That's about all I really want to comment (on Kelley),'' Ray said. ``There's no need to.'' Enter Foyt, the first four-time champion of the Indy 500 as a driver and the winner as a car owner with Kenny Brack in 1999. Ray and Foyt announced last week they will be a full-time team through the end of the 2003 season. This marks the third time the Texans have joined together in the IRL, and Ray said he understands the order of things in A.J.'s universe. ``There's three ways to do it at A.J. Foyt Racing _ his way, his way and his way,'' Ray said. ``I think we'll do it his way. ``He's a four-time Indy winner, and when he walks in there, he can hold up four fingers. There were a couple of times we should have brought home the jug of milk with Team Menard. But the experience A.J. has is a weight in the favor of getting it done.'' Ray has gotten it done during qualifying at the 2.5-mile Indianapolis Motor Speedway since 1998 _ having started second, second, first and second in the world's greatest auto race. He has led a combined 116 laps during those four starts, although never completing more than 192 of the scheduled 200. ``No doubt I've made my fair share of mistakes, and had the wrong game plan on race day,'' said Ray, whose 17th-place finish at Indy last year remains the best of his career. ``I probably can say I've won some Indy 250s, but nobody cares about that.'' Certainly not Foyt, that old sorcerer whose collection of trophies includes five from the Speedway. ``I can't think of a better coach on this planet than A.J. Foyt,'' said Ray, still sitting at A.J.'s desk. ``He definitely knows his way around that racetrack. He has that magic touch.'' Dixon looks hooked in Top Fuel John Force's march to his landmark 100th Funny Car victory rightly has been the dominant story of the 2002 National Hot Rod Association season. Very methodically, however, Larry Dixon has positioned himself to make a major move in Top Fuel only six races into the 23-event Powerade Drag Racing Series. Dixon's victory in the final at Bristol (Tenn.) Raceway on Sunday was his fourth in five final-round appearances this season, and was preceded by his fourth No. 1 qualifying effort. Dixon has averaged over 100 points (100.67) per race weekend to open a 126-point lead on two-time and reigning Top Fuel champion Kenny Bernstein. ``I haven't been driving as long as some other people,'' said Dixon, 35, who is in his eighth season behind the wheel of the Miller Lite Dragster. ``But I've been driving long enough to know that this kind of streak doesn't come around every week, unless you're (11-time champion) John Force. So, I'm enjoying the moment and trying to work as much as I can to keep it going.'' Dixon earned his 20th career victory at Bristol at the expense of Darrell Russell in Joe Amato's car. It was a rapid recovery from an uncharacteristic first-round upset loss against Mitch King at Houston Raceway Park in Baytown on April 14. ``Just winning the first round (against Roger Dean) was a big uphill battle _ just to get it out of the way,'' said Dixon, whose opening-round defeat at HRP was his first in 30 races. A broken input shaft doomed Dixon at Baytown, prompting a series of equipment changes over the ensuing two weeks. ``We changed a lot of things,'' said Dixon, a former crewman for car owner Don ``The Snake'' Prudhomme. ``We had different input shafts, bearings, a lot of things different in the clutch, stronger pieces. I don't think anybody got tipped over about losing. We said, `OK, we know why it broke, it happened at an ugly time, but let's get back on the horse and ride it.''' Dixon won the final with a quarter-mile pass of 4.644 seconds/317.87 mph to give Prudhomme his 81st victory, including 49 as a driver. Prudhomme is celebrating his 40th anniversary in the sport, and Dixon and crew chief Dick LaHaie are aiming to deliver the ultimate gift of a championship. ``I don't know if you realize how hard it is to make that many runs during the course of the season _ that's qualifying and race day _ and not have anything dumb happen,'' said Dixon, anticipating this weekend's visit to the Atlanta Dragway in Commerce, Ga. ``Other than that input shaft, the car had been flawless, and credit really goes to the crew for staying ahead of that stuff. I've been working on these cars since 1988, and to be able to have a car that good is phenomenal. I'm very impressed with our team.'' Elledge returns to APR NASCAR Winston Cup crew chief Jimmy Elledge, the loser of a clash of egos involving Todd Parrott at Robert Yates Racing, has returned to work for car owner Andy Petree. Elledge will be calling the shots for Bobby Hamilton and the No. 55 Schneider Electric Chevrolet Monte Carlo when the tour visits the Richmond (Va.) International Raceway on Saturday night. Elledge was replaced by Parrott as crew chief on Dale Jarrett's No. 88 UPS Ford Taurus in the days leading to the Samsung/RadioShack 500 at Texas Motor Speedway in early April. To that point, Elledge had logged one top-10 result with Jarrett. Elledge's rehiring has pushed Charley Pressley out of the crew chief's job at APR, the team Cowboys owner Jerry Jones is negotiating to purchase. Menard hires Jones Team owner John Menard certainly stunned some Indy Racing League observers with his selection this week of PJ Jones to replace the injured Jaques Lazier, beginning with the 86th Indianapolis 500. But Menard said he did his homework on Jones, son of 1963 Indy 500 champion Parnelli Jones and a veteran of several series. Still, Jones will begin the month as a rookie at the 2.5-mile Indianapolis Motor Speedway. ``Not only did everyone I called in the business for recommendations say PJ was up to the task,'' Menard said, ``I noticed that he's never truly had a shot in really good equipment. And the few times he has had the tools, he's been spectacular.'' Jones, 33, has logged 59 starts in the rival Championship Auto Racing Teams FedEx Series with a career-best second at Nazareth Speedway in 1999 for Patrick Racing. He will be teamed at Indy with California buddy Robby Gordon, a NASCAR Winston Cup regular doing a one-off at the Speedway for Menard. Lazier suffered a fractured vertebrae in a two-car accident during the Firestone Indy 225 in Nazareth on April 21. He will wear a brace for eight to 12 weeks. Last laps Helio Castroneves, the reigning Indianapolis 500 champion, is scheduled to test at Texas Motor Speedway today in anticipation of the Boomtown 500 Indy Racing League event June 8. Reigning IRL champion Sam Hornish Jr. has edged Winston Cup points leader Sterling Marlin for first quarter Driver of the Year honors. Hornish earned seven first-place votes and 107 points from a panel of 16 motorsports journalists, who also gave Marlin six first-place votes and 102 points. nn 
