South Korean officials regrouped Wednesday after Tuesday's surprise rejection of a rescue plan for Hynix Semiconductor by Hynix's own board, saying that they still hoped to revive the deal and that the board could expect no help if it continued to try to chart an independent course. The country's finance minister, Jeon Yun-churl, indicated that the government had long since concluded that Hynix was no longer viable and said the government was opposed to rolling over loans or providing new credit to Hynix. The company was $6.8 billion in debt before it entered negotiations with Micron in January. Hynix has had two other state-sponsored financial bailouts in recent years. ``Debt write-offs should also be considered fresh financial assistance,'' Jeon told Korean reporters, adding that they will not be forthcoming. Jeon said the door was open if Micron wished to renew talks on the blocked deal, in which Micron would have taken over Hynix's main business, memory chip manufacturing, in exchange for stock. Micron would have invested $200 million to help Hynix sell or make a go of its remaining semiconductor businesses. Hynix's board unanimously rejected the deal, saying the price was too low. The Micron stock, worth $3.8 billion when talks were concluded, has lost $1 billion in value since then. Hynix officials said Wednesday that the company would go in the opposite direction, seeking a buyer for the nonmemory businesses so it could pay down debt while concentrating on making memory chips. Last year, Hynix slipped into third place, behind Samsung Electronics and Micron Technology, in production of memory chips, the high-volume, low-margin end of the semiconductor business. It is losing ground to the No. 4 producer, Infineon Technologies of Germany. Despite improving prices and demand, analysts said they saw little hope of Hynix's remaining independent unless it found a foreign investor to buy most of its assets. Infineon, sometimes mentioned as a prospective buyer, has said it is not willing to make the kind of immense investments needed to keep Hynix alive. (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.) Hynix's finances have been controlled by its principal creditor banks for the last year. Senior government officials have said they had no authority to tell the banks what to do. But it is clear that the government is counting on its control of Hynix's three main creditors _ the Korea Development Bank, the Korea Exchange Bank and Hanvit Bank of Woori Finance Holdings _ to press Hynix's board into reversing its decision and accepting the Micron deal. The Korea Development Bank is a government agency; the government owns all of Woori and holds most of Korea Exchange's shares. Much of Hynix's bank debt is in convertible bonds, which, if redeemed for stock, would give the banks majority control of Hynix and the power to order directors to comply with their wishes or resign. Jung Keun Yong, governor of the Korea Development Bank, said Wednesday that any notion that Hynix could survive independently, as suggested by the board and by individual shareholders and members of Hynix's labor union, was mistaken. 
