Cowboys vice president Stephen Jones said Wednesday that top pick Roy Williams and the team's other draft selections should not expect a raise over what players got in the same spots last year. Jones said the tradition of giving players 5 to 10 percent raises was based on the rookie salary cap increasing by that much from the previous year. But because there was no change in the overall rookie cap from 2001 to 2002, Jones said the individual salary numbers will likely be the same. Thus, the contract for Williams, a safety, shouldn't be much different from what Chicago wide receiver David Terrell got as the eighth overall pick in 2001. Terrell signed a five-year deal that averaged $2.274 million per season and included a $4 million signing bonus. Likewise, guard Andre Gurode, a guard who was the 37th pick overall, will likely get something similar to what Indianapolis safety Idrees Bashir got last year _ a four-year deal that averages $773,000 per season, including a $1.47 million signing bonus. The story will be the same for the Cowboys' seven other picks. The stagnant rookie pool is actually good news for the Cowboys, whose rookie allotment of $4.576 million was squeezed by the seven-year contract given to rookie free-agent quarterback Chad Hutchinson on Jan. 26 . The Cowboys wouldn't have been able to give raises even if they wanted to. Jones said he will be challenged to fit all the draft picks under the cap. Jones hopes to accomplish the task with some creative financing, namely voidable years, split bonuses and extended years. Williams will likely sign for six years rather than five to reduce the cap hit, and Gurode will get a five-year deal rather than four. Further complicating the situation is that the Cowboys have only $3.1 million left under the overall salary cap of $71.1 million. The team needs roughly $1 million to get the rookies signed. While the Cowboys still plan to release a veteran or two to create some cap room, they can always turn to linebacker Kevin Hardy's contract. Hardy signed a one-year deal with a four-year option. Breaking it down, he got a $1.5 million signing bonus and a base salary of $1 million in 2002. The Cowboys must pay him $5.025 million on the first day of the 2003 season to kick in the final four years of the deal, which calls for him to get base salaries of $2.475 million in 2003, $3.5 million in 2004, $3 million in 2005 and $4.5 million in 2006. However, showing that the Cowboys have learned from their past mistakes and to prevent a major cap hit in later years, a prorated amount of the $5.025 million option payment is already counting against the 2002 cap, even though it hasn't been paid. Hardy's cap number for 2002 of $2.3 million includes a prorated bonus allotment of $1.3 million, which is calculated by dividing the signing bonus and option payment over the lifetime of the deal. Jones said the Cowboys can have the money count differently and create salary cap room if they need it. BRIEFLY _ Cowboys coach Dave Campo said he's as encouraged about what he saw the past week in quarterback school as he is with what the team did in the draft and free agency. He singled out newly signed cornerback Bryant Westbrook for praise. Campo said Westbrook, who was still recovering from a torn Achilles' tendon when the Cowboys signed him on March 22, surprised him by even participating. That he practiced at a high level was only a bonus. Campo said the team must continue to work in the off-season program and the weight room before the second quarterback school, May 20-22. _ The Cowboys are expected to make an official announcement some time next week on moving training camp to San Antonio. nn 
