Carleton ``Carly'' Fiorina was the chief executive to watch when she arrived at Hewlett-Packard Co. nearly three years ago, a tough, no-nonsense leader. And true to form, she quickly shook up the giant technology company, paving the way for HP's megamerger with Compaq Computer Corp. Her acquisition strategy also led HP, one of Silicon Valley's signature companies, into a battle with the heirs of the company's founders, who opposed the deal with Compaq. It was a controversy many thought would prove to be Fiorina's undoing. On Tuesday, though, Fiorina emerged victorious when a Delaware judge tossed out Walter Hewlett's lawsuit against the company, declaring that it lacked merit. That removed the final roadblock to the $18.6 billion deal, the biggest technology merger in US history. Fiorina, the nation's most prominent woman executive, accepted the challenge from Hewlett and David Packard head-on. Putting her reputation on the line, she tenaciously lobbied institutional shareholders, launched a nationwide campaign that defended the merger in newspaper ads and letters to stockowners, and even suggested the opposition was too old-fashioned to recognize the need for change _ a charge that resonated in cutting-edge Silicon Valley. Winning the shareowners' vote and turning back the court challenge were vindications for Fiorina and her hard-driving management style. But in the wake of a six-month fight that divided employees and investors, Fiorina now faces an even bigger challenge: She must heal wounds and deliver solid returns while guiding the integration of a battle-scarred HP with Compaq, a Houston, Texas company with a different culture that itself has had difficulty absorbing Digital Equipment Corp., formerly of Maynard. Success in the next phase could prove much tougher, experts say. ``The challenge now is to set a level of expectations regarding the merger that she can meet,'' said David Yoffie, chairman of the corporate strategy department at Harvard Business School. ``Her personal credibility will be on the line for the next (several) quarters. She must redefine expectations early and decisively, and she must make sure she meets those expectations. Otherwise, she will lose support from employees, analysts on Wall Street and the board.'' Criticized in the past for failing to deliver higher financial returns, as promised, Fiorina must also be willing to change previous goals, even if that means lowering some of her expectations for HP and its future partner, Compaq, said Yoffie. ``The board rallied behind Carly extraordinarly well,'' Yoffie added. ``It was willing to push a Hewlett off the board, and it demonstrated that it would back her decision (to promote a merger) even in the face of a difficult fight.'' At the same time, Fiorina will remain in the public spotlight because her status as the most powerful woman in corporate America. And her recent victory have given many women renewed hope. ``She is a role model for other women who are coming up in corporations,'' said Aileen Gorman, executive director of the Commonwealth Institute, a Boston nonprofit group that helps women chief executives grow their firms. ``She had a vision of what she wanted to accomplish and she went after it effectively in what was clearly a winning campaign. ``Carly Fiorina was under tremendous pressure, but she succeeded,'' Gorman said. ``If she had lost, many people would have second-guessed her strategy and her maneuvers. Now I don't think anyone can say she folded in any way.'' Even before her highly publicized merger campaign, all eyes were focused on Fiorina, whose $57 million salary, tough stance, and nontechnical background caused Walter Hewlett to question her ability to run the firm his father, William, founded with business partner David Packard 63 years ago. Some corporate women feared that failure to secure a victory would have led to Fiorina's ouster and, as with other women forced out of top jobs in recent years, from Jill Barad at Mattell to Linda Wachner at Warnaco, raised uncomfortable questions: Did the spotlight shine more brightly on those women? Were they held to a higher standard than their male counterparts? Fiorina will be confronted with different questions as she strives to meld the cultures of HP and Compaq. That means, Yoffie says, ``that she must set expectations that she can meet, even if that means redefining the promises she made during the battle over the merger.'' That will be hard. Over the past few months, in a campaign that took Fiorina around the country, she promoted the merger as the most important step in her efforts to make HP into a more competitive company. At the same time, her opponents argued that joining the two behemoths would prove unwieldy and result in a dissolution of the ``HP Way'' _ a favorite term for the company's cultural style. Known for its inventiveness and a decentralized form of management, the HP Way has been credited with inspiring loyalty among a wide range of employees. ``Once you determine that there is serious dissension, the whole course must be reevaluated,'' said Charles Elson, director of the Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware. ``Dissension focuses intense scrutiny on every step the company makes, which is difficult. Missteps that ordinarily would be explainable are magnified under the heightened scrutiny.'' As for the proposed merger, Elson said, ``I think integrations are notoriously difficult. An integration where, apparently, you do not have the unanimous support of employees or shareholders makes the situation that much more difficult . . . I don't think anyone will come out of this a winner.'' Jack Mohan, president of Management Recruiters International in Boston, noted that Fiorina has succeeded in winning her fight, but said she will have to be more conciliatory and a consensus builder if she wants to achieve her vision for HP. He added that strong-willed executives like Fiorina tend to ``know where they want to take a merged company.'' Jeffrey Christian, the Cleveland executive recruiter who introduced HP to Fiorina, said the company was looking for someone who could take the slumbering technology giant to a new, more energetic level. But neither Fiorina nor her backers could have anticipated the level of resistance she would face after accepting the job. ``Hewlett-Packard wanted someone who could come in and rebrand Hewlett-Packard,'' said Christian, chief executive of the international search firm Christian &AMP; Timbers. ``Carly is bright, has great presence and excellent persuasive skills. But she was never out of the firing line.'' Diane Lewis can be reached at dlewis(at)globe.com. 
