A fifth-grade teacher in South Jersey returned to class Thursday, three weeks after he was suspended because of news reports that he had impregnated a 15-year-old girl while he was a priest in Connecticut. The teacher, Joseph Michael DeShan, was placed on paid administrative leave from his job in Cinnaminson, N.J., on April 12, said Salvatore J. Illuzi, the superintendent of schools. The leave came after Connecticut newspapers reported that DeShan had a sexual relationship with the girl in 1988 and 1989, while he was a priest in the Roman Catholic Diocese of Bridgeport. Illuzi said that he and two lawyers for the district had determined that DeShan had neither violated any administrative rules nor appeared vulnerable to criminal charges because Connecticut's statute of limitations on sexual assault is two years to report a crime and five years to prosecute it. Illuzi said he told DeShan's lawyer on Wednesday that the teacher could return to his job immediately. ``He did come back today, and he was very positively received by his students and his colleagues,'' the superintendent saidThursday, adding that the district's review had not touched on the substance of DeShan's actions 13 years ago. The woman who made the accusation, now 28, lives in Connecticut with the 12-year-old daughter she said she had with DeShan, The Associated Press reported. Illuzi said DeShan, 42, a husband and father of two other children, is a popular, excellent teacher whose five-year history with the district is unblemished. Illuzi said the teacher would accompany fifth-graders, parents and other teachers, on a camping trip in two weeks. Cardinal Edward M. Egan of the Archdiocese of New York was the bishop in Bridgeport at the time the woman said the affair occurred. The archdiocese and the Bridgeport diocese issued a joint statement saying that though Egan was told of the relationship after DeShan disclosed it, the girl's age had not been revealed. ``DeShan testified that he had had `a monogamous relationship with a woman' _ not a minor,'' the statement said. The statement said that Bridgeport officials became aware of a relationship in 1994, when DeShan began proceedings to leave the priesthood. Illuzi said he had received 13 letters and e-mail messages from parents in support of DeShan's return, and two opposed. One couple asked that their daughter not be placed in his class. Illuzi said the teacher did not want to comment. DeShan's lawyer, Steven R. Cohen, did not return calls. Mayor William Kollar of Cinnaminson said parents seemed untroubled by the reports about DeShan's past. ``If indeed, if the community has given him this much support,'' he said, ``let him go ahead.'' 
