While decades away from retirement, Thomas and Heather Clark just bought a 32-foot motor home. They have plenty of company. Sales of motor homes, travel trailers and other so-called recreational vehicles have surged in the early months of 2002, all at a time when headlines warned of a wobbly economy. Low interest rates and reasonable gasoline prices earlier this year contributed to the increase, industry observers say. Thomas Clark said crunching the numbers convinced him that buying a motor home made good dollars and cents. The interest rate on his $59,000 rig was less than 8 percent and is tax-deductible like mortgage interest on a second home. He said fuel cost for the RV is just $20 to $40 a trip more than it would be in his SUV, and motel savings more than pay for that. ``Before we got the motor home, one trip we stayed at a fleabag motel to save money and it was still $59 a night,'' Clark said. But some of the increase in RV travel is also attributed to increased airport security and the attendant hassles following the Sept. 11 attacks. ``But even before 9/11, we began to hear people say: `I'm never going to stand in line at the airport again,''' said Janet Groene, author of ``Living Aboard Your RV'' and other books on the RV lifestyle. Whatever the reasons, business is humming. Winnebago Industries, a major motor home maker, has a backlog of more than 3,000 orders. Coachmen Industries, which makes RVs of all descriptions, has seen orders increase by 25 percent. RV dealers in metro Atlanta report a similar spike. Sales at Norman Campers are up 22 percent through April, said general manager Tim Elzey. Don Larsen, general manager of John Bleakley Motor Homes, reports sales up about 20 percent as well. Not an explosion in sales, but certainly a pretty good pop. Business is also booming for RV rental companies. Arizona-based Cruise America, the nation's largest RV rental company, saw a 40 percent increase in business the first quarter, said reservations manager Afton Griffin. Reservations for summer travel are up about 25 percent. The increase in sales also reflects ``the new normal'' following the Sept. 11 terrorists attacks. For many folks, touring the country in a RV is no longer the stuff of some day. ``After 9/11,'' says motor home salesman Al Brittain, ``people aren't wanting to put if off anymore.'' The events of 9/11, coupled with the loss of Thomas Clark's mother, prompted the Clarks to take the leap. ``We see life differently now,'' Thomas Clark said. ``What is important to us now is friends and relatives and our connections to them. We want to see friends and relatives and we want to see the country.'' More RVs on the road means more people are looking for a place to camp. The National Park Service has a national reservations system for campgrounds at 22 national parks, including Great Smoky Mountains National Park, Grand Canyon National Park and Yosemite. Through early April, reservations for campsites are up 24 percent over the same period last year. From July 2001, the beginning of the fiscal year, through February, reservations at Georgia state park campgrounds and lodges were up 36 percent. Traveling by RV allows the whole family to go where they want when they want, dealers said. With a motor home, said Thomas Clark, it is easier to travel with the family dog. ``Not only is a motor home your transportation, you've got your own hotel room,'' said Larsen of John Bleakley Motor Homes. ``And with the appointments in motor homes these days, you're not giving up a lot to stay in an RV.'' Clark said, ``Some of the appliances here are nicer than the ones we have at home.'' Clint Williams writes for The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. E-mail: cwilliams(at)ajc.com Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
