For the past four months. trying to sort out which 3-year-old might show up in the winners' circle at Churchill Downs on the first Saturday in May has been like trying to fit puzzle pieces made of paper together in a windstorm. The pieces were not lacquered nor did the air still Wednesday at the post-position draw for the 128th Kentucky Derby. All anyone knows is that a full field of 20 will be running for the roses. As expected, the Ohio-bred Harlan's Holiday, a colt that has won the Florida Derby and Blue Grass Stakes and has never finished worse than second in 10 starts, was installed as the morning-line favorite, though an incredibly lukewarm one at 9-2. He is the highest-odds morning-line favorite since early lines were established in 1949. He will break from the No. 14 post and his trainer, Ken McPeek, remained unfazed about how little respect Harlan's Holiday has garnered despite his $1.4 million bankroll. ``I'd rather be a lukewarm favorite than a long shot,'' McPeek said. There also was some gamesmanship as the trainer Bob Baffert and the owner Mike Pegram surprised their fellow trainers and owners by entering Danthebluegrassman in the race at the 11th hour. Until Wednesday, the Golden Gate Derby winner was headed to another derby _ the Lone Star Derby in Texas on May 11. Now, he'll break from the No. 17 hole here on Saturday at 50-1. But Baffert and Pegram, who campaigned the 1998 Kentucky Derby winner Real Quiet, decided to cross everyone up and enter a colt named after the son of the late Major League Baseball commissioner Happy Chandler after Danthebluegrassman worked a blistering six furlongs on Tuesday. ``I didn't want to say anything because I didn't want to be bugged about how my horse was working; I didn't want him knocked,'' said Baffert of Danthebluegrassman, who finished eighth and last in last month's Santa Anita Derby. ``Mike is the kind of guy who takes a chance and lets it roll. A lot of my second- string horses have beaten my first- string horses so we thought we'd take a chance.'' Baffert also entered War Emblem, whom Prince Ahmed bin Salman of Saudi Arabia bought early last month after he raced to a gate-to-wire victory in the Illinois Derby. The prince finished fifth here last year with the eventual Preakness and Belmont Stakes winner Point Given and was on hand to select the No. 5 post for War Emblem, a generous 20-1 prospect. There were few surprises in the two-tiered draw system that lined up what is going to be an unusually large and unwieldy field. First the owners and trainers waited through a blind draw that assigned the order of their post selection, then they got down to the business of placing their horses. The Wood Memorial winner, Buddha, drew the first selection and his trainer, James Bond, decided to place the lightning-quick colt in the No. 10 hole. Bond noted that nine previous winners broke from that position and said that Churchill Downs' loading order meant his colt would be among the last to amble into the starting gate. The horses are loaded in staggered fashion: No. 1 and 11 go first, followed by 2 and 12 so on. Buddha was installed as the 5-1 second choice in the morning line along with the Santa Anita Derby winner, Came Home. The second selection went to the Wood runner-up, Medaglia d'Oro. His trainer, Bobby Frankel, placed his 6-1 morning-line prospect in the No. 9 post. ``The decision we made was one of playing it safe,'' Frankel said. While the early pacesetters bunched in the middle of the gate, the closers such as Saarland for the most part opted for outside post positions. Saarland's trainer, Shug McGaughey, chose the 16 post for his 15-1 colt. The Irish-based outfit that campaigns 2-year-old champion Johannesburg is trying to win the Derby after a single prep race last month on the turf at seven furlongs. Johannesburg lost that race, and ever since the machinations of trainer Aidan O'Brien have been shrouded in mystery. Still, he merited respect in the morning line as a 6-1 choice. O'Brien waited until Wednesday to name the Hall of Fame jockey Gary Stevens as a replacement for the colt's regular rider, Mick Kinane, who has been suspended in Europe for rough riding. There were gasps in the Kentucky Derby Museum, where the draw was held, when Demi O'Byrne, the bloodstock consultant for Coolmore, the breeding and racing concern that owns Johannesburg, selected the No. 1 post. With such a large field, Johannesburg runs the risk of getting pinned on the rail and being impeded by traffic. ``It will allow us to stay behind the first tier of horses where we really want to be,'' said Stevens, dismissing any potential problems involving a colt he has never ridden before. Mike Battaglia, the oddsmaker, conceded he could not make sense of all the pieces. ``This is going to be a great betting race,'' he said. 
