For a company, changing names is an expensive hassle. Advertisements, signs, business cards, Web names and more must be switched. When is the cost worth it? When the name is Enron. ``The negative associations with the name 'Enron,' at this point, outweigh any positive equity earned,'' said Tye Heckler of Heckler Associates, a Seattle-based marketing firm specializing in corporate naming. ``When that happens, it's time to say, 'Hey, let's get a new name,' `` he said. Enron is expected to present its creditors Friday with a plan to reorganize as a smaller company operating under a new name it has not yet revealed. On Thursday, the Wall Street Journal said it had obtained a draft of the reorganization plan that referred to an ``OpCO Energy Co.'' But an Enron spokesman said that is just a placeholder, short for operating company. Heckler said deciding whether or not to make a name change is based more on ``gut instinct'' than data. For example, when Chrysler Corp. veered towards bankruptcy in 1978, it hung on to its name and successfully rebuilt its reputation, he noted. But sometimes a change is clearly indicated, he said, recalling that after a 1996 fatal crash in the Florida Everglades, ValueJet turned into AirTran Airways. ``Sometimes you just have such a negative event that your credibility is blown,'' Heckler said. ``For AirTran, I think the name change has worked pretty well.'' Peter Mack, managing director of corporate branding for Enterprise IG, a San Francisco-based consulting firm, said that whether a new name will help Enron depends upon how dramatically the company transforms itself. The Wall Street Journal said Enron would focus on its original assets _ power plants, electric utilities and natural-gas pipelines _ while staying away from its troublesome trading operations. ``The most successful name changes come when a company wants to signal broader, fundamental changes,'' Mack said. If a company just wants to escape a bad reputation without making real changes, the results are rarely worth the effort, he said. For that reason, Mack predicts that Philip Morris's switch to Altria Group Inc. won't have much impact, because the food and tobacco company will continue to be the nation's largest cigarette maker. ``If they had said, 'We're phasing out of cigarettes over the next three years,' then that would have been a good name change,'' he said. ``But it's business as usual ... so why bother?'' Mack said the loss of ``Enron'' is unfortunate because it's a good name _ easy to pronounce and subtly connecting the company to its energy business. While Enron might be a nice name, ``so was Adolf, but that name acquired a lot of baggage,'' he said. On the Web: Enron: www.enron.com Marilyn Geewax's e-mail address is marilyng(at)coxnews.com ENDIT Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
