Here are the stories New York Times editors are considering for the Page 1 of Thursday, May 2. The N.Y. Times News Service night supervisor is Pat Ryan; phone: (888) 346-9867; e-mail: patryan(at)nytimes.com. 	INTERNATIONAL 	(Will move in ``i'' news file.) 	MIDEAST (Ramallah, West Bank) _ A ledeall: Six wanted Palestinians were escorted out of Yasser Arafat's battered offices Wednesday night and whisked away in a convoy of U.S. and British armored cars, a diplomatic breakthrough that effectively ends Arafat's weeks-long confinement by Israeli troops. At the same time, some Israeli armored vehicles began pulling out of Arafat's compound, part of a planned withdrawal from the entire city. Other developments, on the U.N. Jenin mission and at the standoff in Bethlehem. (Summary from wires) (Staff byline TK) 	With photo. 	AFGHAN (Khost, Afghanistan) _ Developing. Two senior Afghan commanders here said Wednesday that they had been involved in six commando operations in the past three weeks, each involving hundreds of American and British soldiers. While these large operations have netted a respectable amount of weapons and ammunition, they have not managed to kill any Qaida soldiers and have arrested but two suspects. By Barry Bearak. 	CHINA-U.S. (Washington) _ Hu Jintao, the man next in line to take power in China, met President George W. Bush on Wednesday in a first formal encounter which will go a long way to set the tone of future Sino-U.S. relations. Hu is making his most significant step yet onto the international stage, ahead of his expected elevation to some of Chinese communism's top posts later this year. (Summary from wires) By Erik Eckholm. 	WASHINGTON 	(Will move in ``w'' news file.) 	CONGRESS-DRUGS (Washington) _ An election-year battle over prescription drugs began in earnest Wednesday as House Republicans and Senate Democrats rolled out competing proposals to provide Medicare drug benefits to the elderly. By Robert Pear. 	NATIONAL GENERAL 	(Will move in ``a'' news file.) 	MISSING-GIRL (Kansas City) _ Almost exactly a year ago, the nude, decapitated body of an unidentified girl was found in Kansas City. The police launched one of their most extensive investigations ever. The community, which named her Precious Doe, was haunted by the case. Now her identity may be known as police wait to see whether she is a Florida girl who was recently discovered to have been been missing for 15 months, even though state officials were supposed to be monitoring her whereabouts. By Jody Wilgoren and Dana Canedy. 	FINANCIAL 	(Will move in ``f'' news file.) 	CONGRESS-DOLLAR (Washington) _ After saying his goal was to avoid upsetting the financial markets, Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill did just that on Wednesday by sparring with members of a congressional committee about the nation's financial condition and leaving some investors with doubts about his willingness to defend the weakening dollar. In testimony before the Senate Banking Committee, O'Neill dismissed the concerns of many economists that an overreliance on investment from abroad has left the United States vulnerable to a sharp drop in the value of the dollar and a possible economic downturn. By Richard W. Stevenson. 	SCIENCE 	(Will move in ``a'' news file.) 	SCI-AIDS-BLACKS (Undated) _ Blacks and Hispanics make up more than half of all AIDS cases in this country, but they're only half as likely as whites to participate in clinical trials of new drugs to treat HIV infection, a new study has found. The two minority groups were also about half as likely as whites to receive experimental therapies for HIV, the virus that causes AIDS. Even when patients tried to get experimental treatments, whites were about 12 percent more likely than blacks to receive them. By Sheryl Gay Stolberg. 	CIRCUITS 	(Will move in ``a'' news file.) 	CIR-ONLINE-EDUCATION (Undated) _ At the height of the Internet boom, many colleges started ventures aimed at cashing in on online education _ figuring that it would be ``easy, inexpensive to develop and highly profitable,'' as one expert put it. All three assumptions turned out to be mistaken, and now many of the operations are being rethought or abandoned. By Katie Hafner. 	With photos, NYT6,7. 	(Editors: All clients receive all budgets, but only full-service clients receive all stories. Please check your level of service to determine which stories you will receive.) 
