Talks broke down on Wednesday between Arthur Andersen and the creditors and shareholders of Enron, who had sued the firm for signing off on Enron's erroneous financial statements. The parties were unable to agree on how to divide any payment by Andersen, people close to the negotiations said. The discussions between the Enron creditors and shareholders and Andersen had proceeded in fits and starts for several weeks. Last week, even as talks teetered on the brink of collapse, people close to them said that there was new hope for a deal. But on Wednesday, after a round of conference calls involving the lawyers for Andersen and the various plaintiffs, it became clear that no agreement could be reached, people close to the talks said. One person close to the negotiations said late on Wednesday that Eric D. Green, who was asked by a federal judge in Houston to mediate the talks, had already formally notified the court that they had failed to reach an agreement. Once the judge, Melinda Harmon, receives such notification, she may order the parties to try again or may allow the lawsuits against Andersen to go to trial. In a statement released late on Wednesday afternoon, Andersen expressed regret over the failure of the talks but said that other parties were responsible for the lack of progress. ``During these discussions, considerable progress was made, but unfortunately, the plaintiffs could not resolve several differences among themselves and with defendants other than Arthur Andersen,'' the firm said in its statement. Green, the mediator, declined to comment on the status of negotiations. ``They'll go back to litigation, but in all likelihood at some point in the future there'll be a settlement,'' said Stephen P. Younger, a partner at Patterson, Belknap, Webb &AMP; Tyler in New York, who is not involved in the negotiations. That trial might not be scheduled to begin for many months, he said, adding, ``These cases, the vast majority of them, settle.'' Lawyers for the plaintiffs have now made a risky gamble, because if Andersen loses at its criminal trial, a separate case that begins on Monday, there may not be much left of the firm to pay off the civil plaintiffs. Andersen proposed settling these lawsuits for $750 million several months ago, but the most recent settlement proposal was just $350 million, the result of the defection of clients. The shrinking _ and possibly now vanishing _ settlement will likely lead to lawsuits against other companies that could be liable for Enron's collapse, like banks and law firms. ``People are going to be firing at the banks to make up for what they couldn't get from Arthur Andersen,'' Younger said. 
