Considered science fiction as recently as four months ago, ``soft wall'' technology will get its first real-world test in the four corners of the famed Indianapolis Motor Speedway next week. But the SAFER _ Steel and Foam Energy Reduction _ barrier officially unveiled at IMS on Wednesday by Indy Racing League and NASCAR officials is not under immediate consideration for Texas Motor Speedway in Fort Worth. ``As to will we see it this year or anything, it's too early for me to tell you that,'' said Eddie Gossage, TMS' executive vice president and general manager. ``I don't have any read on that yet.'' Gossage plans to confer with Brian Barnhart, the IRL's vice president of operations, on the SAFER technology before the 86th Indianapolis 500 on May 26. The IRL's first race after Indy, the Boomtown 500, is scheduled for June 8 at TMS _ a high-banked, 1.5-mile quadoval that offers a completely different set of variables from the relatively flat, rectangular 2.5-mile IMS oval. Gossage said he is anxious to see the test data compiled by the IRL, NASCAR and the University of Nebraska's Midwest Roadside Safety Facility. ``One of the things the IRL told us is they are not going to require IRL tracks to install this technology,'' Gossage said. ``So we all have decisions to make. Some of the things we've already talked about are no two speedways are alike, and there are a variety of things this technology impacts.'' Specifically, Gossage mentioned spectator safety-fence overhangs, practice sessions involving vehicles from NASCAR's Craftsman Truck Series and the IRL on the same day at TMS and the fact that TMS' quadoval features additional short turns in the frontstretch. ``While it's appropriate to place soft wall technology at Indy _ a unique track that has four 90-degree corners _ it may not be as appropriate to an oval or a quadoval,'' Gossage said. ``We also want to see it in practice. But they've made good progress, and conceptually it's a great thing.'' Practice for the Indy 500 is scheduled to begin Sunday afternoon and continue daily leading to Pole Day qualifications May 11. At some point during the long week, a driver in an open-wheel IRL car will hit the wall in the search for the speed necessary to qualify for the 33-car field. ``Though we hope it doesn't happen,'' said IMS president and IRL founder Tony George, ``the odds are likely that the barrier will be impacted during those practice periods, which will allow us to evaluate its performance before we get to racing conditions.'' Barnhart said the term ``soft wall'' was a misnomer. ``Our goal was to create an energy-absorbing barrier,'' Barnhart said. ``And we have gone to a point right now where our goal with this barrier is to reduce the forces seen by the car and the driver to an area that the driver is less likely to be injured.'' A total of 4,240 feet of the Speedway's permanent outside concrete wall has been covered with the energy-absorbing barrier. Each turn of the speedway has 1,060 feet of barrier and another 60 feet of transition element approaching the barrier. The barrier is constructed in 20-foot modules. Each module consists of four rectangular steel tubes, welded together, to form a unified element. The modules are connected with four internal steel splices. Bundles of 2-inch-thick sheets of extruded, closed-cell polystyrene are placed between the concrete wall and the steel tubing modules every 10 feet. Six or seven sheets of polystyrene are used in each bundle, depending on location of the module. ``One of the prerequisites presented to us was to create a barrier robust enough to absorb an incredible impact and yet maintain its integrity so the event could continue with little or no delay for repair,'' said Dr. Dean Sicking, director of the Midwest Roadside Safety Facility. ``The principle behind the wall is it provides a continuous barrier system that remains parallel to the track and moves back as a unit as it dissipates energy. The need for that movement is to prevent `pocketing,' which is where the barrier wraps around the front of the car, which extremely increases deceleration.'' A total of 18 crash tests were conducted at the Midwest facility with cars towed by a pulley at speeds between 100 and 153 mph and at angles of 20 to 25.5 degrees. ``From a stock-car standpoint, I don't see this having any impact in narrowing up the turns (at TMS),'' Gossage said. ``From an Indy-car standpoint, they do run three-wide here. That was last year. They'll probably run four-wide here this year. A 55-foot track that loses two feet ... the last two feet in the turns is space you can afford to give up. So it's all very promising.'' nn 
