For over a century, the NYPD mounted unit has patrolled the streets of New York from the saddle, a constant presence at parades, protests and in Central Park. From the officers, who are often the second or third generation in their families to serve in this elite unit, to the civilian ranks that care for the city's 92 horses, the mounted unit has a tight-knit culture and a venerable history. This family of horse lovers takes great pride in its traditions. The unit was founded in 1871 to stem the city's reckless horseback riders. The first 13 officers arrested 400 riders that first year, and the department increased from 15 to 400 horses a few years later, mostly to control crowds at strikes, parades and protests. By 1904, there were 800 officers. Today, there are 100, used mostly for crowd control because an officer on horseback can do the job of 10 on foot. The U.S. cavalry traditions during the Civil War inspired the mounted unit's uniforms and saddles. The riding breeches, English black-leather boots and lapel pins -- tiny gold-plated horses' heads -- give the officers a distinguished look. Other cities such as San Francisco, Boston and London have mounted units, and, as among firefighters, there is a feeling of kinship among these officers. Officer Darrin Scali, who has been with the unit for three of his 12 years in the police force, grew up riding a family horse on Long Island. ``I decided a long time ago that this was what I wanted to do,'' said Scali, ``but I had to beg and plead to get into the unit.'' Scali's class of 22 officers trained in the Bronx at the stables in Pelham Bay Park for three and half months. Scali said some recruits do not make it through the program when they realize the demands and dangers of riding. Every year, a few officers are injured, thrown off, walked over or kicked by a horse. Indeed, the horses are imposing creatures, some as tall as 16 hands high to their shoulders (5 feet, 5 inches), weighing 1,100-plus pounds. When the animals are exhausted, they tend to lash out at officers and grooms, says Scali. Scali's horse, Donny, kicked him a year and a half ago after the animal had been working a lot of overtime. Some of the horses, including Cannon, Galapo, Keith and Vincent ``G'', are named after fallen police officers. A few are named for corporate donors, such as C.B., which stands for Chemical Bank. There are plans to name a horse after the officers who died on Sept. 11. When a horse threw off a mounted officer recently, landing the man in the hospital, it was the groom, James Carey, who soothed the skittish animal when it returned to the stables. Carey, a groom or ``hostler'' as they are known, grew up in Brooklyn wanting to be a cowboy. Now he splits his time between caring for horses at the mounted unit and riding several times a week at Clay Pit Ponds State Park Preserve on Staten Island. ``I've always been in love with horses,'' said Carey, 60, an avid collector of Western movies who has been a groom for five years. ``I was the country boy who never left the city.'' Carey, like the department's other grooms, feeds the horses -- mostly chestnut or bay geldings -- cleans their stalls, burnishes their coats to a sheen and soothes their swollen legs. He placates the prickly animals with carrots and apples. At least one hostler is on duty seven days a week, 24 hours a day at each of the unit's six stables. Possibly the most self-sufficient unit in the police department, the troop also makes and repairs its own saddles and bridles, mostly to save money. Officer Ralph Rodriguez has been crafting and repairing saddles and bridles for the last five years. In a former stable in Queens, Rodriguez strips the torn and tattered leather from the original skeleton of the saddles, replacing it with new leather. The mounted also employs three full-time horseshoers, or farriers, who reshoe each horse every seven weeks or so. John McGlynn, who has been a farrier for 30 years and studied his craft at a school in Oklahoma, said his work is a dying art. Like a modern-day Hephaestus, McGlynn takes a red-hot shoe out of the murmuring forge with a clip, places it on the anvil and hammers away. McGlynn recalls the sounds of horses' hooves clopping on the cobblestone streets outside his childhood home in Greenpoint, Brooklyn. James Carey is equally nostalgic about the days when horses dominated life. Carey, who likes to sing old Gene Autry and Johnny Cash songs, remembers his father taking him to rodeos at Madison Square Garden in the 1940s. ``The rodeos used to come here for a whole month then,'' he said. ``Now they don't even come for one day.'' (EDITORS: There is no charge for use of this story, but please send a tearsheet to Professor Stephen D. Isaacs, Columbia News Service, Graduate School of Journalism, Columbia University, 2950 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10027.) 
