The Rev. Paul R. Shanley, who is accused of molesting at least 26 boys while he was a priest in the Boston Archdiocese, was arrested Thursday in San Diego and charged with three counts of child rape. The charges were filed by the Middlesex district attorney in Cambridge, Martha Coakley. She said her office decided to seek an arrest warrant for Shanley on Wednesday after learning of television news reports that the Roman Catholic priest was in San Diego. Coakley said investigators had felt there was ``a sense of urgency'' to arrest Shanley, suggesting they were concerned that he might go into hiding or try to leave the country. Coakley did not identify the accuser, but a person involved in the case said the charges were based on allegations made by Paul Busa, 24, who has accused Shanley of repeatedly pulling him out of Christian doctrine classes at St. John the Evangelist Church in Newton, Mass., and molesting him in the rectory, the confessional and the bathroom. Busa said in an interview last month that the abuse began in 1983, when he was 6, and continued until 1989. Coakley said her office was considering whether to file other charges involving other accusers against Shanley. Since the clergy sex abuse scandal erupted in Boston in January, prosecutors here and around the country have been frustrated that many of the allegations against priests could not be prosecuted because the reported acts had happened too long ago, many of them in the 1960s or 1970s, and fell outside statutes of limitations. The statute of limitations recently caused a Massachusetts judge to throw out the most serious criminal charges against John J. Geoghan, the defrocked priest whose long history of pedophilia set off the scandal. But Coakley said the allegations against Shanley fell squarely within the statute of limitations for child rape, which she said allows for charges to be filed in cases where the accuser comes forward within 10 years of his 16th birthday. Shanley was arrested about 7:45 a.m. at the home of a friend, Dale E. LaGace. Coakley said that the San Diego police had telephoned the apartment and that Shanley returned the call and went with the police without resisting. Robert Locke, the deputy district attorney of San Diego County, said Shanley would appear at a hearing Friday morning to determine whether he plans to fight extradition to Massachusetts. Messages left for a lawyer for Shanley, Frank Mondano, were not returned Thursday. Shanley, 71, has not commented publicly about any of the allegations against him. Thursday's criminal charges were the first to be filed against Shanley. He is the subject of several lawsuits filed against him and the archdiocese by people who claim he molested them during his 30-year career as a priest in the Boston area, either at the church in Newton or during the 1960s and 1970s, when he was known as a colorful and controversial ``street priest,'' who worked with homosexuals, runaways and troubled youth. The archdiocese has already settled at least three lawsuits involving Shanley. Documents the archdiocese was ordered to release last month in one lawsuit show that church officials, including Cardinal Bernard F. Law, knew about complaints that Shanley was a child molester, and that he had publicly advocated sex between men and boys. Those documents show that high-ranking officials of the archdiocese allowed Shanley to continue to serve as a priest, not only in the Boston area, but also in a California parish and a New York City Catholic guest house. Church officials in those states were told little or nothing about Shanley's background. (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.) Busa, the complainant in Thursday's criminal charges, said in an interview last month that almost weekly Shanley would call him and two other boys out of catechism class. The other boys, Greg Ford and Anthony Driscoll, have told similar stories. ``He called it special duties,'' Busa said. ``This was for the good kids. When he pulled us out he would separate us. One would go to the bathroom, another would go to the rectory, another would go to the confession room. ``I remember standing in the bathroom having my pants pulled down and he'd stare at me. The bathroom light would be off. You could see his silhouette in the doorway. He had his arms spread out. It was like he was trying to play god. And I remember he would walk over to me really slowly.'' Busa said that when Shanley took him to the confession room, they would play the card game War. ``If you lost you had to do whatever he said, and he'd say something like `Take your pants off,''' Busa said. Busa said, ``I remember him telling me that if I told anybody, nobody would believe me, and he was right. Everyone thought he was a saint.'' Busa said that he had not told anyone and that he believed he had suppressed his memories of the abuse until this February, after hearing news reports about other allegations against Shanley. An Air Force military police officer in Colorado Springs, Colo., at the time, Busa said that after recalling his abuse, he ``cried for six straight hours'' and had severe stomach cramps, panic attacks and a sensation like ``bugs crawling all over me.'' He said he had seen a military psychiatrist, who diagnosed anxiety and post-traumatic stress disorders, which he said has forced him to end his military career. Busa recently returned to Newton and met with prosecutors for the first time on Wednesday. Thursday, other people who accuse Shanley of molestation reacted with relief at his arrest. Rodney Ford, a Boston College police officer whose son Greg also says the priest molested him from 1983 to 1989, said: ``When I first found out about what happened to Greg, my first instinct as a dad was just to go out and hunt Shanley myself. But I knew that wouldn't be right. I feel very good about this.'' His wife, Paula Ford, speaking at a news conference, said other Shanley accusers should ``sleep tonight. The man who molested you is behind bars.'' 
