Editors at publications outside the United States may find the following stories from The New York Times News Service for Saturday, May 4 of particular interest: 	INTERNATIONAL (``i'' code) 	The Middle East 	MIDEAST (Dateline TK) _ A ledeall: Israeli forces moved into the West Bank city of Nablus on Friday and killed two Palestinians during the five-hour raid. Other developments, including that talks have broken off in Bethlehem. (Staff byline TK) 	MIDEAST-ASSESS (Washington) _ A news analysis on next weeks meeting between President Bush and Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon. By Todd S. Purdum. 	Terror 	AFGHAN (Padkhyab-e-Shaneh, Afghanistan) _ British troops begin sweeping the area on foot, though they are finding no al-Qaida fighters and have encountered no resistance. A view of the overall operation, while quiet today, front the front line. By Barry Bearak. 	Other International 	FRANCE-ELECT (Paris) _ A curtain-raiser on Sunday's presidential election, pitting President Jacques Chirac against Jean-Marie Le Pen, the far-right leader. By Suzanne Daley. 	BURMA-RIGHTS (Bangkok, Thailand) _ After 18 months of closed-door talks and conciliatory gestures, Myanmar's military government seemed on the verge of taking the politically risky step of releasing from house arrest the pro-democracy leader Daw Aung San Suu Kyi. The Nobel Peace Prize winner in 1991, she has been under house arrest on and off since 1990 when the overwhelming election victory won by her movement in 1990 was nullified by the military, which has governed ever since. By Seth Mydans. 	INDIA-CRASH (New Delhi, India) _ An Indian Air Force MiG-21 fighter jet caught fire and crashed on Friday into a bustling commercial zone in the northern city of Jalandhar, killing at least eight people. Fifteen others, mostly employees of a state-owned bank, were seriously injured. By Celia W. Dugger. 	MILOSEVIC-WARCRIMES (The Hague, Netherlands) _ Kosovo President Ibrahim Rugova confronted his former foe, Slobodan Milosevic, in the courtroom Friday, accusing Milosevic of unleashing a brutal campaign of ethnic cleansing in Kosovo in 1999 in a bid to snuff out its independence movement. By Marlise Simons. 	HOTTENTOT-VENUS (Cape Town, South Africa) _ The dissected and preserved remains of ``Hottentot Venus'' were welcomed home to South Africa from France on Friday, nearly 200 years after the African woman was first put on display in Europe as a sexual freak. By Rachel L. Swarns. 	WORLD-BRIEFS (Undated) _ World news in brief. 	UNITED STATES _ Washington (``w'' code) 	TERROR-WARNING (Washington) _ An FBI counter-terrorism agent in the field told headquarters last summer that a number of Arab men were taking flight training and seeking to learn about airport security. He based the warning on observations in Arizona and suggested a larger monitoring effort. His superiors responded that such an effort would not be effective. After Sept. 11, a review of the individuals whose actions prompted the original warning found no connection to any terror plan. By James Risen. 	SCIENCE (``a'' code) 	SCI-HUMAN-GENOME (Undated) _ New reports suggest that humans may have more genes than scientists previously thought. By Andrew Pollack. 	FINANCIAL (``f'' code) 	ECON-REPORT (Undated) _ The unemployment rate surged to 6 percent in April _ the highest since August 1994 _ in a report that shows the labor market still weak despite signs of growth in the overall economy. The rise in the jobless rate, from 5.7 percent in March, came as employers added 43,000 jobs in April. All of the job growth came in temporary work. The rise in the jobless rate, however, also reflects the impact of extended unemployment benefits: in other words, people who were unemployed and not looking for jobs are now being counted because they are receiving benefits. Still, the report, coming four days before Federal Reserve policy makers meet on interest rates, illustrates how far the economy has to go before it can be considered full recovered. By David Leonhardt. 	ENRON-OUTLOOK (Houston) _ Enron executives will lay out to the committee of its creditors its plans for a new company. The interim chief executive, Stephen Cooper, has said several times in the past that a renamed Enron would be a much smaller company and chiefly a pipeline operator. By David Barboza. 	TRW-NORTHROP (Undated) _ TRW shareholders reject a takeover proposal, dealing a setback to Northrop Grumman's $6.7 billion hostile offer to acquire the company. But the chief executives of both companies say they are in talks on a confidentiality agreement, a move that may lead to friendly negotiations. Lockheed Martin, meanwhile, has been meeting with officials at the Justice Department and the Pentagon for more than a month in an effort to derail a Northrop-TRW merger. By Andrew Ross Sorkin. 	KOREA-ECON (Seoul, South Korea) _ South Korea, long in Japan's shadow, is breaking with the traditional export model that still dominates thinking in Tokyo and is blazing a new trail for Asian economic development. By encouraging consumers to spend freely on credit, throwing its doors open to foreign investment, and introducing an American-style freedom to fail, South Korea has put itself back on track as one of Asia's fastest growing and most diversified economies. And while Japan's stagnation draws attention, South Korea's boom draws investors. By James Brooke. 	WORLD-BIZ-BRIEFS (Undated) _ Short items on business news from around the world. 	COMMENTARY (``k'' code) 	An Op-Ed column by Bill Keller. 	ENTERTAINMENT/ARTS (``e'' unless otherwise indicated) 	Saturday Arts and Ideas Page 	KAMASUTRA-WOMEN (Undated) _ For generations countless readers have pored over the Kamasutra, the ancient Hindu text of erotic love, scanning it, sometimes furtively, for descriptions of exotic sexual positions. But now a new translation offers a radically different view of the famous sex manual, and argues that the most widely read English version is riddled with errors and suppresses the role of women. ``This translation will change peoples' understanding of this book and of ancient India,'' said David Shulman, professor of Indian Studies and Comparative Religion at Hebrew University in Jerusalem. ``Previous translations are hopelessly outdated, inadequate and misguided.'' By Dinitia Smith. 	CHINA-MODERNITY (Undated) _ Chinese intellectuals today are engaging in a full-throated debate about the country's future. In academic conferences at home and abroad and in journals of scholarly opinion that are cloaked in the protective veil of academic jargon (and, often, English), political scientists, sociologists and economists are sparring openly about the state of the country's quasicapitalist, mostly antidemocratic government. The question that captivates leading minds there is the same one that engaged court intellectuals at the end of the Qing dynasty, when China first began opening itself to the West at the end of the 19th Century: how to make the country modern. By Joseph Kahn. 	Other culture and entertainment 	HEMINGWAY-LETTERS (Undated) _ Ernest Hemingway was a prolific letter writer _ by one estimate, he left behind 8,000 to 10,000 letters, most of which have never been published. He didn't keep copies of his own letters, although he held on to his correspondence with his fellow writers, his editors, his mother and his wives. He also kept letters that he never sent, in some cases apparently because the language was too strong, even for Hemingway. For the first time, this staggering correspondence, scattered around some two dozen libraries and universities, will be sorted, edited and revealed by an international team of scholars, with an eye to the publication of a multi-volume edition of the complete letters of Hemingway. By Celestine Bohlen. 	SPORTS (``s'' code) 	RAC-DERBY (Louisville, Ky.) _ On the eve of the Kentucky Derby, one of the favorites _ Buddha, the winner of the Wood Memorial three weeks ago _ is pulled from the race with a bruised foot. So, 19 horses will now go to the starting gate, instead of 20. By Joe Drape. 	FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION please contact Gary McCardell, News Service day editor; e-mail garymc(at)nytimes.com; 888-346-9867 or 212-556-1927. 	MOVING LATER: 	AM-NYT-BUDGET _ The top international, U.S., political and financial stories being considered by New York Times editors. 	AM-ADD-NYT-BUDGET _ A rundown of culture, lifestyle, sports, and special section stories will move by 3:00 p.m. ET. 	AM-PAGE1-NYT-CONSIDER _ A list of stories being considered by New York Times editors for Page 1 will move at 4:30 p.m. 	AM-EARLY-FRONTPAGE-NYT _ Stories scheduled for Page 1 will be listed by 7 p.m. 	AM-FRONTPAGE-NYT _ A description of the front page layout of the first edition of The New York Times will move at 7:30 p.m. 	TECHNICAL PROBLEMS: 	Berris Anderson 	(212) 499-3337, berris(AT)nytimes.com 	e-mail to pager: page-berris(AT)nytimes.com 	numeric page: 1-800-759-8888 pin 1066839 	or 	Harry Brindley 	(212) 499-3304, harryb(AT)nytimes.com 	e-mail to pager: harryb(AT)nytimes.com 	numeric page: 1-888-710-8736 	NEW YORK TIMES PARTNERS: 	Please note that the New York Times News Service report includes news and features from The Arizona Republic, The Boston Globe, Cox News Service, The Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Hearst Newspapers, The Houston Chronicle, The Kansas City Star, The Los Angeles Daily News, The San Francisco Chronicle, The Seattle Post-Intelligencer, States News Service and the New York Times Regional Newspapers. 	(Editors: All clients receive all budgets, but only full-service clients receive all stories. Please check your level of service to determine which stories you will receive.) 
