The family of a first-grader student filed a police report, leading to a substitute teacher's firing, after the teacher allegedly pressured the boy to lick a classroom floor for talking in class. Robert Jack, 32, of Wayne-Madison Road, was terminated by the Edgewood City School District following an investigation by school officials. The alleged incident happened at Bloomfield Elementary School on April 15, Assistant Superintendent Larry Knapp said. ``We don't condone this and we're very disappointed that something like this happened,'' Knapp said. ``We took immediate steps to make sure this doesn't happen again.'' An investigation to determine whether criminal charges might be warranted has been started by Trenton police. According to the report, the student was given the option, by Jack, of going to the principal's office or licking the classroom floor as punishment for talking in class. Because the student was scared, he chose to lick the floor rather than visit the principal, the report said. A second student licked the floor after the first student because he was intimidated by the teacher, the report said. Knapp said the investigation by school administrators matched the information contained in the police report. Reached Wednesday, Jack said the issue has been ``overblown'' and that he had been joking when he suggested the student lick the floor. ``I realized at the time it wasn't the right thing to say after I saw the reaction of some of the students, but I couldn't take it back after I said it,'' Jack said. ``He never licked the floor and I never made him lick the floor. If he did it, he did it when my back was turned. He may have done it under peer pressure. ``The police report was filed under the assumption the kid told the truth, but that's not the full story or how it happened. ... I said it as a joke, actually.'' Jack said he gave the student the option of placing his head on his desk or licking the floor because of his poor behavior. Jack is not a licensed teacher. In Ohio, substitute teachers are required to have a bachelor's degree and pass a background check by the Bureau of Criminal Investigation and obtain a substitute teaching certificate, Knapp said. Jack was hired as a substitute in October, and he'd taught in the district a total of 15 days. ``He admitted to me that he gave the student the option, but that he didn't think he'd do it,'' Knapp said. ``I asked why he would even give him that choice. ``He made one dumb mistake. It's unfortunate for the kids and it's unfortunate for him, too.'' Kevin Tucker writes for the Middletown (Ohio) Journal. E-mail: ktucker(at)coxohio.com Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
