``Do anything you want to try to break it,'' the teacher instructed. ``If you break it, you have my blessing.'' The teacher was Hank Aaron. The pupil was Barry Bonds. ``It'' is the major-league record of 755 career home runs. ``It'' currently belongs to Aaron. When Aaron retired in 1976, his record was promptly put on the nobody's-going-to-come-close mantle alongside Ty Cobb's 4,191 career hits and Lou Gehrig's 2,130 consecutive games played. Until Bonds. While others such as Mark McGwire flirted with the concept of reaching 755, Bonds has been getting hot 'n' heavy with it. He has 130 home runs in his past two-plus years, including the single-season record of 73 last season. Everybody thinks Bonds has a shot at 755. Everybody except Bonds. ``My time is done,'' Bonds said. ``I have four or five years left and that's it. It's not enough time for me, and that's just reality.'' Despite his own doubts, Bonds' 575 career home runs at age 38 make him baseball's best immediate chance to break Aaron's record. As the daily pressures and attention grow, Aaron told Bonds to go for it, but at the same time not to imprison himself to the chase. ``I think Barry is the most remarkable offensive player that I have ever seen,'' Astros general manager Gerry Hunsicker said. ``I've seen some of the greats like (Willie) Mays, Aaron, (Stan) Musial, but Barry ... he doesn't seem to have a weakness right now. To me, it's just how long he can stay mentally focused without the pressure getting to him.'' Coming off his rock-star-tour 2001 season, Bonds has displayed no signs of mental fatigue. He is batting .375 with eight home runs and 17 runs batted in so far. He's on pace to hit a more human 52 home runs. His start included four home runs in his first two games. His seventh this season, career home run No. 574, moved him past Harmon Killebrew for sixth all-time. The ridiculous start immediately had talk-show hosts and ESPN's ``SportsCenter'' projecting when, not if, Bonds would break Aaron's record. After all, Bonds is a 38-year-old who plays like a 28-year-old hitting in a bull market for home runs. He signed a new five-year contract this off-season. If Bonds' home run pace over the next five years is anything like last season, he could pass the record before the deal expires. ``He really didn't have a great spring, but as soon as we got to a big-league park, he just turned it on,'' Giants shortstop Rich Aurilia said. ``I guess he is the epitome of the guy who can turn it on when he wants to.'' Bonds can turn it on, but opposing pitchers can also turn it off. During the Giants' recent 12-game road trip, Bonds drew 12 walks and was hit twice. ``You intentionally walk me 100-plus times, that's time I lost,'' said Bonds, who is on pace to walk 207 times this year. ``I don't have seven more years to make up those differences.'' Even if he did, age is catching up. He admitted to having a slight tear in his left hamstring two weeks ago, yet he still plays. The only visible area the injury affects him is his running, not swinging. ``I'm not a doctor, but you talk about a tear in your body and you're able to play doesn't make any sense to me,'' Astros manager Jimy Williams said. ``But maybe he is better on one leg than a lot of people are on two. He's a tough kid, and it's pretty phenomenal what he is doing.'' What Bonds is doing is redefining what is possible. If he can hit 156 home runs over the past three seasons, why couldn't he hit 180 in the next five? ``He has a heck of a chance, he's getting closer than a lot of people have in a long time,'' Giants manager Dusty Baker said. ``But McGwire got close (but retired). So was (Ken Griffey) Junior, but he got hurt. There is a lot of stuff between now and that record. He's already made history, and among the great. It's a matter of how far he goes, and to what degrees of greatness. How great is great?'' Funny, but it was just two years ago that when people mentioned Bonds, most words used to describe him weren't great, but arrogant and choke artist. He has always had a reputation of being cocky. And his career .197 batting average in 27 postseason games remains a large dirty spot on an otherwise spotless rsum. But since he began his assault on history, everywhere he plays, stadiums are filled. Every pitch Bonds sees brings Hitchockian suspense, much the same way it was for McGwire during the '98 season. And fans boo not Bonds, but pitchers who have the audacity to pitch around him. ``If you have anyone doing something exceptional, I think everyone wants to be a part of that. They should,'' Bonds said. ``You may see something that may never happen again. It's part of baseball tradition, and why not be happy?'' Exactly. So why not go for it? Why not do to Aaron what he did to Babe Ruth? Which is what Aaron told Bonds when they filmed a commercial at The Ballpark in Arlington this off-season. In the spot, Aaron's voice resonates through the stadium trying to convince Bonds not to go for the record. In real life, it's the opposite. ``I was telling Barry to do everything he can, because when that day passes, it's all over,'' Aaron said. ``I wished him well and said, `Go for everything you can.' '' Here endeth the lesson. nn 
