COURT FACES TOUGH DECISIONS AS TERM WINDS DOWN (For use by New York Times News Service clients.) By MARK HELM c.2002 Hearst Newspapers WASHINGTON _ As the Supreme Court nears the end of its term, the justices still face many of the session's toughest decisions, including one on school vouchers and one on how far states can go to protect to the rights of patients in managed health plans. ``Most of the big cases that could have some real impact on society are still out,'' says Mark Tushnet, a law professor at Georgetown University. But that ``is not surprising,'' he says. ``They're the ones that (the justices) really want to look at and analyze before making a decision.'' So far in this term, which began in October and will end in June, the justices have ruled on 42 of the 78 cases they have heard. That's about par for recent years. Last year at this time, they had decided 41 of 82 cases they had considered. One of the most important cases this year is a dispute involving school vouchers in Cleveland. Enacted by the Ohio General Assembly in 1995, Cleveland's voucher law provides poor parents up to $2,250 a year toward each child's tuition at a participating private school of their choice. The program is available for children in kindergarten through eighth grade. In 1999-2000, about 4,200 of Cleveland's 57,000 students in those grades used vouchers. Ninety-six percent of them attended religious schools, which make up 82 percent of the schools accepting vouchers. Challenging the law in 1997, teachers and civil rights activists argued that the vouchers violate the First Amendment's prohibition on governmental establishment of religion and present a major threat to the public school system. ``The court's decision in this case could affect tens of thousands of students over the next few years, and literally change the way education is conducted in the United States for generations,'' says Clint Bolick of the Institute for Justice, a public-interest law firm that supports vouchers. The case could be decided by Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, who is often a swing voter. In responding to oral arguments she seemed to tilt toward the pro-voucher side. During the arguments in February, O'Connor seemed untroubled by government-aid-to-religion concerns as long as parents were offered options besides parochial schools. Another case where O'Connor may have the key vote focuses on whether executing mentally retarded people violates the Constitution's protection against cruel and unusual punishment. The case involves a retarded man, Daryl Atkins, 23, who has been on death row since 1998 for the 1996 abduction and murder of Eric Nesbitt, a U.S. airman assigned to Langley Air Force Base in Hampton, Va. Currently, 38 states have laws permitting capital punishment. Twenty of them, including Virginia, allow executions of the mentally retarded, generally defined by doctors as people with IQs under 70. Atkins has an IQ of 59. In hearing the arguments, two conservatives, Chief Justice William Rehnquist and Justice Antonin Scalia, seemed reluctant to strip states of the authority to decide whether the mentally retarded could be subject to execution. But O'Connor noted that even if the court ruled in favor of Atkins, states would still have the power to decide what constitutes mental retardation. In a case that touches the lives of millions of Americans, the court must decide whether states can enforce laws providing for binding independent review of a health maintenance organization's rejection of a proposed treatment. The case centers on Debra Moran, 31, a speech therapist of Winfield, Ill., near Chicago, who sought treatment in 1996 for nerve pain and numbness in her right shoulder and arm. The surgery was a success, but her HMO, Rush Prudential Inc., refused to reimburse her for the operation, arguing that other, less expensive treatments were available. Moran appealed to an independent review board set up by the Illinois state government to arbitrate such disputes. The board sided with Moran. But Rush still refused to pay, arguing that a federal law, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), blocks states from imposing independent review boards on HMOs. Besides Illinois, 39 states have enacted laws creating similar review boards. In all, the laws apply to about 118 million workers _ 65 percent of all employees covered by private insurance. Gregg Bloche, co-director of the Johns Hopkins Program in Law and Public Health, says the Supreme Court's decision could ``decide the future of managed care'' in the United States. Other major issues for the court to decide this term include: _ Should U.S. officials be allowed to lie to American citizens in order to protect national security? The case centers on Jennifer Harbury, an American widow who was misled for years by American officials concerning the whereabouts and condition of her husband, a Guatemalan rebel leader, who died in the custody of Guatemalan troops in 1993. Although the events in the case occurred nearly a decade ago, the court's ruling could have a substantial impact on the current war on terrorism in which government officials might argue, for example, that they need to lie in order to protect covert military operations. _ Did Congress go too far in passing a law designed to shield minors from sexually explicit material in cyberspace? The 1998 Child Online Protection Act makes it a crime for commercial Web sites to present materials ``harmful to minors,'' unless the site operators try to keep children away by setting up screening programs that require credit cards. Opponents argue the statute was too broadly written and that it discourages publishers from offering adults sexually explicit materials that they have a right to see. _ Can an Oklahoma high school randomly test students taking part in after-school activities for drugs? _ Under what circumstances does the Constitution permit police to search people for contraband if they are traveling on public transportation? Here, the justices must decide if police who want to look for drugs or evidence of other crimes first must inform public transportation passengers of their legal rights. (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.) So far, the court has handed down only two key rulings. In a major victory for environmentalists, it ruled 6-3 last month that government agencies that temporarily ban development on private property generally do not owe compensation to the land owners who are prevented from building on their own property. The court also ruled 5-4 in April that a company ordinarily does not have to bend its seniority system to make sure a disabled worker can stay on the job. The decision was a triumph for business groups and was another in a long line of rulings that have limited the scope of the 1990 Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), a law designed to stop discrimination based on disability. 
