The Nets' season legacy was threatened, their superiority questioned and their desire doubted. But the Nets eventually turned aside the skeptics Thursday night, refusing to let their franchise-record 52-victory season crumble in futility. They vanquished the failures of the past 18 years with a 120-109 double-overtime victory over the Indiana Pacers at Continental Arena in Game 5 of the three-of-five series. The Nets' mission to win the NBA championship will continue here Sunday afternoon in Game 1 of the Eastern Conference semifinals against the Charlotte Hornets. That series is four-of-seven. The Pacers' Reggie Miller, who finished with 31 points, forced both overtimes with acrobatic shots. With 1 minute 5 seconds remaining in regulation, Jason Kidd, who shot 11 for 26 and finished with 31 points, sank a 21-foot jumper from the right elbow to give the Nets a 94-91 lead. Miller missed a 3-point attempt with 50 seconds left, and after Kidd missed a jumper, Miller got another chance. With 18.7 seconds left, Miller had the ball 4 feet beyond the arc, pump-faked, and was fouled by Keith Van Horn. Miller, the NBA's top free throw shooter this season, at 93.3 percent, went to the line for three shots and a chance to tie the score. Van Horn went to the bench, having fouled out with 27 points. Miller made the first, missed the second and made the third, cutting the Nets' lead to 94-93. Kidd, who was fouled with 17.3 seconds left, made two free throws to make it 96-93. But the game didn't end there. The Nets are young and have never been playoff tested as a team, which was painfully evident by the rookie Richard Jefferson's costly gaffe. The Nets appeared to be celebrating too soon, tasting their advance to the second round. That is not something to do with Miller, a 12-year playoff veteran, on the floor. Jefferson was fouled with 5.1 seconds remaining. A 71.1 percent free throw shooter, he missed both, giving Miller the life he needed. The Pacers had no timeouts, so they got the rebound off the miss and stormed upcourt. Miller got the ball, and with Kerry Kittles on him, spun and heaved a 39-footer that banked in at the buzzer. Television replays showed that the red light went on before he released the shot, indicating the game was over, but the referees did not call it and the game went to its first overtime. Miller sent the game to its second overtime with a driving two-handed dunk with 3.1 seconds left in the first overtime. Kidd hit an off-balance jumper as the shot clock was about to expire, sinking it cleanly to give the Nets a 114-109 lead in double overtime with 1:10 left. The sellout crowd in Continental Arena was chanting ``MVP! MVP!'' and 90 seconds later, it erupted in delirium. Miller had already sent the game into two overtimes. But he missed a jumper with 21 seconds left and this time, unlike in the first overtime, Kenyon Martin hit both of his free throws to give the Nets a 116-109 cushion they would never relinquish. But entering the second overtime tied, 107-107, Kidd took over. He would not let this team lose. Besides his 31 points, he had 7 assists and 8 rebounds, and when Nets Coach Byron Scott took him out with 14.3 seconds remaining, the crowd gave him a standing ovation. The Nets could have won this series Monday night, but stumbled dreadfully in Game 4 in Indianapolis. That dismal performance prompted Kidd, the team captain, to challenge his teammates during a film session on Wednesday. The Nets responded as if they had a chip embedded into their shoulders. Martin, who finished with 29 points, screamed after every dunk. Van Horn's eyes burned with redemption as he drove the lane more forcefully than he had all season. With nine minutes to play in regulation and the Nets trailing, 81-80, Kidd and Van Horn led a 10-0 run. The Pacers' Ron Artest scored, stopping the run. After Van Horn missed two free throws, Miller sank a 3-pointer, cutting the Nets' lead to 90-86 with 3 minutes 53 seconds remaining. Kidd pulled up for a jumper with 3:35 left, giving the Nets a 6-point lead. The Nets entered the fourth quarter tied, 79-79. The game had become so intense by the third that even the mild-mannered Van Horn was hit with a technical foul. Van Horn took Kidd's motivational speech personally. After scoring 5 points in Game 4, he scored 12 points by halftime and burst out in the third quarter, hitting three straight 3-pointers to cap a personal 12-0 run, giving the Nets a 69-66 lead. Van Horn and Martin were giving Kidd what he demanded: more help and more aggression. Even so, the Nets saw a 10-point lead in the first half disappear, and they went to the locker room tied at halftime. 
