Despite the U.S. Supreme Court's 11th-hour decision to halt Curtis Moore's execution, the Fort Worth killer is a long way from having his death sentence lifted on the grounds that he's mentally retarded, his lawyer said Thursday. Austin attorney Alex Calhoun had asked the high court to stop Moore's execution at least until the justices rule in a Virginia case that questions whether executing mentally retarded murderers violates the constitutional ban on cruel and unusual punishment. ``If the court decides there is a national consensus against executing the mentally retarded, then we have a chance,'' Calhoun said. ``If the present law is upheld, then there's not a lot that can be done for Curtis Moore.'' Condemned for a November 1995 killing spree that left three dead and a fourth victim shot and severely burned, Moore had exhausted his appeals when the Supreme Court spared his life three hours before his scheduled execution Wednesday. What happens next depends on several factors, said Calhoun and Steve Ponder of the Tarrant County district attorney's office. The Supreme Court is expected to rule this summer in the case of Daryl Atkins, who was 18 in 1996 when he and an accomplice abducted and killed an Air Force enlisted man in Virginia to get beer money. One test put Atkins' IQ at 59. Many experts classify people with IQs between 65 and 70 as mentally retarded. If the court upholds its 1989 decision that states may execute mentally retarded killers, Moore will have no grounds for further appeals. If the court rules that executing mentally retarded killers is unconstitutional, Moore's lawyers must prove that their client is retarded, Ponder said. Moore's IQ has been measured at 68 and 76, Calhoun said. Moore had not been called mentally retarded in legal documents until his attorney filed a petition Tuesday with the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals. That court rejected the argument, setting the stage for the Supreme Court appeal. Before Moore's death sentence could be set aside on the grounds that he is mentally deficient, the Court of Criminal Appeals would have to agree to allowing IQ tests, Calhoun said. Currently, 18 of the 38 states with the death penalty prohibit the execution of mentally retarded killers. Last year, Texas lawmakers approved such legislation, but Gov. Rick Perry vetoed it. A spokesman for state Sen. Rodney Ellis, D-Houston, a chief sponsor of the bill, said he plans to reintroduce the measure when lawmakers return to Austin in January. Kathy Walt, Perry's press secretary, said the governor believes the current law is adequate. That law allows juries to determine whether a capital murder defendant is eligible for the death penalty. ``The legislation the governor vetoed was fatally flawed,'' Walt said. A spokesman for Democratic gubernatorial candidate Tony Sanchez disagreed. ``Tony Sanchez is supportive of capital punishment, but he would have signed the legislation to prohibit the execution of the mentally retarded,'' spokesman Mark Sanders said. (ONLINE: U.S. Supreme Court, www.supremecourtus.gov) (Visit the Star-Telegram's online services on the World Wide Web: www.star-telegram.com) nn 
