Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat emerged from the wreckage of his headquarters Thursday surveying the devastation left by withdrawing Israeli troops, basking in cheers of supporters, and contending that he and his people were strengthened after 34 days of virtual imprisonment by Israel's military. ``The more destruction I see, the stronger I get,'' a pale and often angry Arafat told reporters as he surveyed the damage surrounded by a heavily armed security force, which pushed back crowds of cheering Palestinians. ``It not only makes me stronger, it makes me more determined to carry the will of my people. This people have built a legend of glory and dignity and sacrifice in defending the Holy Land,'' Arafat said while touring the Palestinian Authority's Education Ministry. Inside the shelled building, Israeli troops had smashed computers and ransacked files during their five-week incursion into Ramallah and other West Bank centers to destroy what they called terrorist infrastructure. Arafat also prayed over the graves of 15 Palestinians who were killed in the fighting and buried in a makeshift grave in a hospital parking lot, and he even helped replaster a bashed-in Palestinian police station. The scene was classic Arafat choreography, in which he presented himself as the political survivor, the steadfast leader, the victorious guerrilla fighter with his trademark fatigues, the kaffiyeh head cloth unfurling like a flag, and a self-conscious determination in his step. Many commentators here reported that Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's stated intention to isolate Arafat, to make him ``irrelevant,'' as Sharon put it, appeared to have failed. Even Israel's intelligence chief took that view. Major General Aharon Zeevi Farkash, director of Israeli military Intelligence, told reporters, ``Arafat's personal standing is strengthened in the wake of Operation Protective Wall.'' Longtime observers from both sides of the conflict said the 71-year-old Palestinian leader faces a daunting challenge simply to rebuild destroyed government institutions as well as delivery systems for water, electricity and communications that were smashed by Israeli bulldozers and tanks. And he will have to do that while balancing intense pressure from the United States and Israel to prevent another wave of suicide bombings, which could reignite the conflict. In Washington, President Bush challenged Arafat: ``A Palestinian state must be achieved by negotiating an end to occupation, but such a state cannot be based on a foundation of terror or corruption . . . I'm optimistic we're making good progress. After all, a week ago Yasser Arafat was boarded up in this building in Ramallah. . . . He's now free to show leadership.'' Sharon remained vague Thursday about the precise terms of Arafat's freedom of movement and whether Israeli would permit him to return if he left the country, as some aides predicted he would next week. Arafat also faces internal opposition. The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, a historic rival to Arafat's Fatah organization but a greatly weakened political force in recent years, joined student groups in a demonstration by about 300 people in Ramallah Thursday. They held placards protesting Arafat's deal that clinched an Israeli pullback of troops by transfering six prisoners to a Jericho jail, where the prisoners will be kept under the watchful eye of US and British monitors. One of the prisoners was the political leader of the front, Ahmad Sada'at. Israel has accused Sada'at of planning and four other prisoners of carrying out the assassination last fall of an Israeli cabinet minister. Khaled Awadallah, 28, who owns a bookstore in Manara Square, was among those protesting Thursday. ``All of the Palestinian people are struggling under this siege,'' he said, ``but Arafat made his own deal to lift his own siege by selling out Sada'at . . . Isn't this selfish? Is this a leader?'' Also critical of Arafat was an elderly Palestinian man who was carrying a shopping bag in another corner of Ramallah _ the West Bank city that was once a thriving commercial and cultural center for the emerging Palestinian state and now is just beginning to emerge from the reoccupation and widespread destruction caused by Israeli troops. Mahmud Abu Hassan, 78, said the fighting placed huge burdens on the Palestinian people. ``The Israelis have pushed us back ten years. We will not rebuild this in my lifetime he said. I hope the president understands where we are and will begin to reform his government,'' said Hassan. Still, a much more common sentiment on the streets of Ramallah Thursday was glowing admiration. Arafat remains a symbol of the Palestinian cause who has regained his image for ``steadfastness,'' as the Palestinians refer to their ability to endure 50 years of conflict and dispossession. Raoufeh Alwahedi, 46, held her one-year-old grandson aloft in the air amid a huge crowd welcoming Arafat. She held out her hand. Arafat kissed it. ``He is stronger than ever. He was steadfast and we admire that very much. Life was difficult for all of us during the siege, including him. But he encourages us to press on, to stay steadfast,'' she said. Scores of elementary school children waved plastic Palestinian flags and posters of Arafat, chanting, ``With our soul, our blood, we sacrifice for you.'' Arafat clapped along with the chant and hugged and kissed children. Other images on Arafat's tour Thursday were more complex. At the Palestinian Legislative Council building, Arafat theatrically shook his head in disgust at the doors that Israeli soldiers had blown off their hinges. But inside, the building was still only half constructed _ a mess of unhooked wires, plaster dust, and construction materials. That mess was not caused by the Israelis but by Arafat's own government, seen by many critics as corrupt and incompetent. The moribund legislative project underscores Arafat's failure to build democratic institutions in Palestinian territory long before the latest conflict erupted. Taha Taha, 28, a frustrated contractor trying to establish a computer and video network between Palestinian legislative offices, said, ``All this destruction around us will set us back at least a decade. But the Europeans will pay for this. We will have help.'' This long held assumption _ that the European Union will be there to bail out the Palestinians _ is not a certainty in the wake of the recent conflict. European diplomats say Arafat will have to show his effectiveness as a leader and Israel will have to show it is serious about peace before the EU will invest in projects like the ones now in ruins. And even as the siege in Ramallah came to an end, the monthlong standoff at Bethlehem's Church of the Nativity was taking a dramatic turn for the worse. Israeli forces fired at Palestinian gunmen walking from the besieged compound into Manger Square, killing one and wounding at least two. Before dawn Thursday, a fire broke out during a gunbattle, damaging several rooms and offices in the compound but not the ancient basilica inside the church, one of the holiest sites of Christendom where tradition holds Jesus was born. The Franciscan order of Roman Catholic priests _ responsible along with Greek Orthodox and Armenian church officials for the church _ said the parish hall and offices of the Franciscan monastery in the church compound were destroyed by fire during the fighting early Thursday. In a statement, the Franciscans made it clear that they held Israelis and Palestinians equally responsible for ``this continuing, intolerable and increasingly dangerous situation.'' (Globe correspondent Said Ghazali contributed to this report.) 
