Andrei Samorodov, a former Russian army captain who said he fled his country after witnessing atrocities by Russian soldiers in Chechnya, has been accused by Russian authorities of fabricating the story to gain political asylum in the United States. Samorodov, 39, who now lives in San Antonio and teaches fencing, said Tuesday that his story is true. If his story were proved false, the Immigration and Naturalization Service could revoke political asylum status. Last October, Samorodov told the San Antonio Express-News that he fled Chechnya after his attempts to stop atrocities against civilians by almost cost him his life. Fleeing to Mexico, he asked for and was granted political asylum in the United States on Sept. 8, 2000. His story, initially told in a San Antonio Express-News column and later by the New York Times, spurred $5,000 in donations to help bring his wife and two young children from Stavropol, Russia. Since publication of the New York Times story in March, Russian officials have called Samorodov's story a lie _ saying he was released from the army in 1993 and thus could not have witnessed any actions by Russian troops against Chechen rebels in the mid- and late '90s, as he claims. Russia fought a losing war against Islamic separatists in the southern region of Chechnya from 1994 to 1996. After several bombings that were blamed on Chechen militants, Russia sent troops back to the region in 1999 and ruthlessly suppressed the rebellion. A story in the New York Times on Saturday reported the Russian government's allegations. According to Yevgeniy Khorishko, a Russian Federation Embassy official in Washington, documents on Samorodov's military career that prove the accusations to be false have been turned over to the U.S. Embassy in Moscow. But on Tuesday, a distraught Samorodov and his lawyer, John Blatz, furnished documents that would seem to cast doubt on Russia's contention that Samorodov was not in the military during the time he alleges the atrocities occurred. Chiefly, they provided a copy of Samorodov's military ID, dated 1996, in dispute of Russian contentions he was released from the army in 1993. They also provided _ as Samorodov had done in earlier interviews _ the former military captain's application for asylum, which includes doctors' notes that describe wounds he claims to have received at the hands of the neofascists, along with notes on an autopsy performed on the family dog, which Samorodov says was beaten to death in Stavropol after he reported the acts of genocide. Blatz also claims to have Samorodov's military identification tags, which Russia requires to be turned in when soldiers exit the military. When contacted in Washington, Khorishko declined to explain the existence of the 1996 military ID. ``I really shouldn't comment on that,'' said Khorishko, who also refused to comment on other documents that seem to support Samorodov's story. Officials from the U.S. Embassy in Moscow could not be reached for comment. Denton Langford, spokesman for INS' regional office, said federal officials by law cannot divulge information regarding asylum cases, and that the only way for the INS to release details of Samorodov's case would be by his own request. The article in Saturday's editions of the Times quoted a former acquaintances who said Samorodov was lying. He maintains he does not know the people in the article, and that Russian officers are being forced to make comments about him. ``It is classic Russian,'' he said on Tuesday, puffing angrily on a cigarette outside Blatz's office at the Refugee Aid Center in San Antonio. ``They are trying to turn me into (a) criminal.'' ``The Russian government is so interested in this case because it has embarrassed them,'' said Blatz, who steadfastly stands by his client. ``Andrei is the first military officer to break rank and say something about human rights abuses in Chechnya. That's why they're coming after him.'' 
