``In this thriving market for child pornography, the Supreme Court's legalization of computer-generated child pornography has created a dangerous window of opportunity for child abusers to escape prosecution,'' Ashcroft said. ``The legislation we introduced today is carefully crafted to address the Supreme Court's concerns while strengthening our ability to eliminate child pornography.'' The high court April 16 threw out the 1996 Child Pornography Prevention Act, which had expanded the nation's child pornography laws to include material produced electronically on a computer or using adult models posing as minors. In a 6-3 decision, the court agreed with free speech advocates who said the law was too broad and too vague because it banned any images that ``appear to be'' or ``convey the impression of'' minors engaging in sexually explicit conduct. In an attempt to address concerns that the previous law could be used to target innocent material contained in artwork, plays or mainstream films that contain scenes of teen sex, lawmakers are now proposing more specific language. The new bill makes clear that the target is images, whether real or simulated, that depict ``prepubescent children engaged in sexually explicit conduct.'' The legislation also would outlaw for the first time making a request to obtain child pornography, as well as making an offer to provide it, regardless of whether the deals go through. Under the old law, prosecutors had to produce the images as evidence to prove cases of possession or trafficking of pornography. In addition, the bill would create a database cataloguing child pornography that is known to include images of real children. Law enforcement officers then could compare images in the database with images in hand, to see what their evidence contains. In the wake of the court's decision, Ashcroft complained that ``virtual'' pornography is almost indistinguishable from the real thing. He warned that prosecutors would have a tougher time getting convictions against child pornographers because they would have the added burden of proving the victims depicted in the images were real children. House Majority Whip Tom DeLay, R-Texas, who spoke at a news conference with Ashcroft and other lawmakers, called the Supreme Court's decision ``a huge disappointment'' for children's advocates. ``We're in a war with people who exploit children for sexual purposes, and we've got to win that war,'' DeLay said. ``Congress's clear intent (with the 1996 law) was to ban any depiction or image of children in sexual situations. ``We will move a bill very quickly, and we hope that our friends in the Senate will pass it just as quickly,'' he added. A House Judiciary subcommittee began hearings Wednesday on the general topic of virtual child pornography. An aide to the bill's sponsor, Rep. Mark Foley, R-Fla., said the new legislation is expected to be ready for consideration on the House floor within the next two weeks. XXX END OF STORY 
