The Bush administration committed on Thursday to join Europe, Russia and the United Nations in convening an international conference on Middle East peace and economic reconstruction early this summer, in its riskiest and most ambitious effort yet to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Officials said virtually all details about the proposed conference remained to be worked out, although it would involve foreign ministers and not heads of state. In just one small sign of the contentious issues still ahead, President Bush repeated his commitment to the creation of a new Palestinian state, but warned that it could not be built ``on a foundation of terror and corruption.'' There has been talk of a peace conference for weeks, but until Thursday many in the Bush administration, including the president himself, had seemed lukewarm about such a gathering, saying that to succeed, it would require a clear agenda and concrete goals. At the same time, Bush has to navigate complicated domestic and international political crosscurrents. Members of Congress from both parties voted overwhelmingly on Thursday to express virtually unqualified support for Israel in its recent military operations in the West Bank. Last week, Bush heard strong demands from Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia for greater American involvement in seeking peace, and next week he is to welcome Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel, who floated the idea of a regional peace conference last month. Thursday's announcement by Secretary of State Colin Powell came as a surprise at the end of a daylong series of meetings with foreign leaders here, and seemed certain to raise worldwide expectations and increase the political stakes for Bush. Speaking to reporters at the State Department, Powell said the conference would address issues of security, economic reform, humanitarian needs and the ``political way forward.'' He added: ``They all have to be integrated, and I think that's one of the agreements we came to today, and I hope it's something that the parties in the region will welcome, moving aggressively forward so that people see not only economic hope, but they see political hope as we move forward toward our vision of a Palestinian state.'' Thursday's announcement marked a potential turning point in months of fitful efforts by the administration that have yielded some recent progress. Israel released the Palestinian leader Yasir Arafat from months of confinement after an American-brokered deal this week, and both Bush and Powell said he now ``has the opportunity to show leadership,'' as Powell put it on Thursday. Administration officials acknowledged the risks inherent in announcing a conference when so much about it remains unsettled. They took pains to say that its mandate would not be as sweeping as the 1991 Madrid conference convened by Bush's father, which began a decade of promising diplomacy that collapsed at Camp David in 2000. By inviting only foreign ministers, the conference organizers will, for the moment, avoid Sharon's stated refusal to negotiate with Arafat. ``This is not the big kahuna,'' one senior administration official said. ``It's part of the process. To gather ideas, pull together the best of what we've got to create some momentum and figure out how we move forward.'' Another administration official summed up the issue this way: ``Everybody agrees the idea of a conference is a good one. Now we've just got to decide who attends, when it is, where it is, and what are the preconditions for making it successful. In the handbook of the Middle East, conferences are good. That said, you've got to have preconditions, and you have to have some restoration of trust and confidence between the two sides to make it work.'' Powell was joined by the secretary-general of the United Nations, Kofi Annan, the Russian foreign minister, Igor Ivanov, and top officials of the European Union. Together, the group has taken to calling itself ``The Quartet'' as it discusses the Middle East, and Powell said on Thursday they were ``committed to working with the Israelis and the Palestinians, with Arab governments and with the international community to restore the hope of all the people in the region for a peaceful, secure and prosperous future.'' Bush's comments about the shape of a future Palestinian state were the first in which he urged Arafat to purge his administration of the corruption that is the source of much criticism from Palestinians themselves. European leaders here for meetings this week echoed those comments. ``A Palestinian state must be achieved by negotiating an end to occupation,'' Bush said in the East Room of the White House, ``but such a state cannot be based on a foundation of terror or corruption. Participants in the discussion on Thursday between Bush and leaders of the European Union said Bush's remarks reflected their concern that aid provided to the Palestinians would be wasted or, in the words of one European participant, ``end up in a Swiss bank account next week.'' One senior administration official said that nations who will be asked to help reconstruct Palestinian civil institutions and security forces will ``not be willing to pay for an inefficient, corrupt bureaucracy that has ties to terrorism. They're going to want to pay for an efficient organization.` Bush cited several recent hopeful signs in the Middle East, including the deal that ended the Israeli siege of Arafat's compound in exchange for the dispatch of British and American wardens to oversee custody of six Palestinians who had been confined there and were wanted by Israel in connection with terrorism. The president said work continues to end another standoff between the Palestinians and Israelis at the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem. ``I'm optimistic we're making good progress,'' Bush said. ``After all, a week ago Yasir Arafat was boarded up in this building in Ramallah,'' he said. Now, he added, ``He's now free to show leadership.'' 
