On the eve of the Impressionist, modern and contemporary art auctions, which take place here next week, it is startling how radically the landscape of auction house rivalry has changed. A mere six months ago, Phillips, de Pury &AMP; Luxembourg, backed by its principal owner, LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, was able to snag some major collections by paying more than anyone else dared and seemed a big threat to Sotheby's and Christie's. Sotheby's, suffering from the price-fixing trial of its former chairman, A. Alfred Taubman, made a calculated decision to lay low and had modest sales. Christie's reputation suffered from the trial, too, although it had a winner in November with the estate of Rene Gaffe, a Belgian perfume mogul who had collected 20th-century art. Now, all that has changed. As a competitor, Phillips seems a nonentity. Having lost its backing when LVMH sold all but 27.5 percent of its stake to Simon de Pury, Phillips' chairman, and Daniella Luxembourg, its president, the company lost its big checkbook. As a result, Phillips has not been able to come up with enough property to sell and was forced to cancel its spring New York sale of Impressionist and modern art. (It is holding a contemporary art auction on May 13.) By way of contrast, Sotheby's, wanting to put a strong face on the company, decided this was the moment to pull out all the stops. Taubman, who was sentenced in April to one year and a day in prison, remains its largest controlling shareholder and has publicly declared his intention to sell his shares. Despite the embarrassment of the trial and vast legal expenses since the Justice Department's 1997 investigation, Sotheby's has combined clever financial maneuvering with the connections of its experts to win the season's three biggest collections. On offer will be top-notch works by masters like Degas and Matisse, Gauguin and Cezanne. Christie's, which had seemed to be lagging far behind, was able at the last minute to cobble together a modest but solid sale of Impressionist and modern art that features a rare Brancusi sculpture worth between $8 million and $10 million. With competition between the auction houses stiffer than ever, guarantees _ undisclosed sums promised to sellers regardless of a sale's outcome _ have now become commonplace. This season sellers of nearly every important collection have been given some sort of financing. To spread its risk, Sotheby's, which used to be the most conservative in offering financing, has partnered with two New York dealers, Robert Mnuchin and William Acquavella, who have helped it finance the guarantees for two major collections. If the sales are successful the dealers share in the company's profits, and if they aren't the dealers can help the auction house find buyers for the unsold property. ``It's something we have done, and think it's useful and smart to get the best result for us and for the consignor,'' said Bill Ruprecht, Sotheby's chief executive. Despite the lure of the artworks up for sale, given the financial risks, the uncertain economy and the damaged reputations of Sotheby's and Christie's, it's still anyone's guess how the auctions will do. ``There's no doubt the world is a scary place,'' said David C. Norman, the head of Sotheby's Impressionist and modern art department in New York. Looking on the bright side he added: ``I've got collectors saying art, not stocks, are where they want to put their money right now. Quality still drives this market.'' (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS) And quality is what Sotheby's is delivering. Its May 8 sale of Impressionist and modern art features a group of modern and contemporary paintings and sculptures put together over a 50-year period by Samuel Maslon, a Minneapolis lawyer, and his wife, Luella. (Samuel Maslon died in 1988 and Luella Maslon in July.) The collection, which is estimated at between $25 million and $33 million, features a number of rare sculptures, among them Matisse's ``Decorative Figure,'' conceived in 1908 and cast in 1950. The sculpture is estimated at between $9 million and $12 million. There is also Giacometti's ``Woman of Venice VII,'' one of 15 standing figures created in early 1956 and estimated to sell for $2.5 million to $3.5 million, and a bust of Giacometti's brother, Diego, from 1950, thought to bring $5 million to $7 million. While sculpture has been particularly popular in recent seasons because it is one part of the market that is still undervalued, Sotheby's also has its share of rare paintings. A group that includes works by Gauguin, Degas, Miro, Matisse and Pissarro that is not designated in the catalog with a seller's name is being sold by Amalia Lacroze de Fortabat, an Argentine businesswoman and philanthropist in financial distress. Initially she planned to sell the Degas and Gauguin in November, but after Sept. 11 she withdrew the paintings, apparently fearing the market might collapse. Both works are exceptional. Fortabat bought Gauguin's, ``Tahitian Woman Near the Palms'' for $18 million at Sotheby's in 1980 from the collection of Edgar William Garbisch and his wife, Bernice, a daughter of the automobile magnate Walter Chrysler. It depicts a slice of highly colorful native life with two women sitting in the foreground and palm trees behind. Sotheby's believes it may well sell for between $15 million and $20 million. The Degas, ``Mary Cassatt at the Louvre,'' is a double portrait of Cassatt and her elder sister, Lydia. It is expected to sell for $12 million to $18 million. Sotheby's is also selling three works from the collection of Dr. Philip Sandblom, a Swedish surgeon who died several months ago, and his wife, Grace. The couple began collecting 19th and 20th-century art in the 1930s. For sale are three paintings, the most valuable of which is Cezanne's ``Pitcher and Plate of Pears'' (1890-93), one of seven canvases in which the same earthenware jug dominates the composition. Estimated between $14 million and $18 million, it is the fourth still life from the series to appear at Sotheby's since 1989. The other two of the three Sandblom paintings are a Gris still life and a 1936 Mondrian. While Sotheby's strength lies in modern art, Christie's May 7 sale highlights Impressionist paintings and sculptures. ``There really hasn't been a lot of good Impressionist works on the market recently,'' said Nicholas Maclean, co-head of Christie's Impressionist and modern art department in New York. Eleven works described as ``property from a private European collection,'' belong to Paul Josefowitz, the publisher of Apollo magazine and his wife, Ellen Melas-Kyriazi, an art historian. Among the highlights are Caillebotte's ``Soldier'' (1881), a portrait of a French infantryman, which is estimated at $2.5 million to $3.5 million. The painting was on loan to the Metropolitan Museum of Art from 1983 until 2001. Another painting expected to bring a handsome price is a Vuillard from the same collection, ``The Family Party,'' painted between 1894-95, that is expected to bring $2.5 million to $3.5 million. Great contemporary art was harder to come by this season. Since collectors in this area tend to be younger, fewer estates come on the market, forcing experts to put together sales one work at a time. ``The problem was that a lot of sellers this season expected unrealistically high estimates,'' said Amy Cappellazzo, head of Christie's contemporary art department. For the first time in four years Christie's has combined its contemporary and postwar art into one sale. One unifying thread that runs through all the contemporary art sales is the large amount of Pop Art. On May 14 Christie's is selling three exceptional works from the collection of Reinhard Onnasch, a Berlin real estate developer, dealer and collector, all of which the auction house hopes will make record prices. A collage by Tom Wesselmann, ``Great American Nude No. 44,'' which shows a naked woman standing in a colorful living room, is estimated at $600,000 to $800,000. The artist's record was made at Christie's when another 1960s work, ``Still Life No. 28,'' sold for $798,000. Also for sale is Ed Ruscha's ``Talk About Space'' (1962), one of his early paintings in which a single word is the subject. It is estimated to bring $1.5 million to $2 million. The cover of the Phillips May 13 sale features a Ruscha from 1963 that has a deep blue background and, like Christie's painting, only one word, ``noise,'' painted across the canvas. It is expected to bring $1 million to $1.5 million and is being sold by Dakis Jannou, a Greek collector. ``Ruscha's market has been undervalued,'' said Michael McGinnis, director of Phillips contemporary art department. All three auction houses have their share of Warhols. Sotheby's has five of the artist's famous images in its May 15 sale, including a self-portrait, an image of Superman and one of the artist's signature car crashes. ``Warhol is recognizable,'' said Tobias Meyer, director of Sotheby's contemporary art department worldwide. ``It speaks about human nature and it has wall power.'' 
