Who's making these proclamations? Why, skateboard stars, of course. They're talking to another skateboarder behind the camera. And it's a safe bet the intended audience for this often-intriguing if hyperbolic movie is largely composed of skateboarders and skateboard enthusiasts. For anyone else, the endless shots of lithe forms caroming across concrete eventually grows wearying, no matter how exhilarating it is at the start. Still, it's impossible for even a nonfan to take his eyes away, and only partly because of the hip, kinetic visual style. Despite its faults, this is a fascinating look at a subculture. At its best moments, the movie looks beyond the dozen or so figures at its center to consider a broader sociological landscape. This music-filled film, which won the director's award and audience award at the Sundance Film Festival last year, tells how the sport rose from rough-and-tumble streets, and it links its originators to graffiti art, low-rider car culture and the obsessive world of surfing. After a brief popularity in the 1950s and early 1960s, skateboarding all but vanished. For a while, it seemed as if it had been a fad like the Hula-Hoop and the yo-yo. But even when the boards were no longer marketed, kids made their own from lumber and roller skates. Commercial skateboards returned in the early 1970s, and after technical advances that gave riders more control, the sport began to catch on with working-class kids who lived in the beach communities of Venice, Calif., and the rundown southern end of Santa Monica. The Dogtown of the title is what the area was called. Z-Boys refers to the Zephyr Skate Team organized by owners of the Zephyr Surf Shop. (One of the Z-Boys was a girl.) The kids were hard-core surfers and ruffians who claimed the dangerous area near the then-dilapidated Santa Monica pier as their private turf. They brought surfing style and technique to skateboarding. They developed the high-flying style that's now commonplace during a drought, when they began skating in drained swimming pools (usually without the owners' knowledge and always on the lookout for the police). The film does a good job of showing how articles and videos by the movement's most influential chronicler, Craig Stecyk, helped the sport bloom into a national phenomenon. (The film is packed with Stecyk's footage documenting the development _ and aging _ of the skaters.) So much of skateboarding culture is about self-display that it's silly to complain about the movie's hagiographic feel. Stacy Peralta, the director, is one of the original Z-Boys and is interviewed on camera. Stecyk, whom the movie lavishly praises, is co-writer and production designer. And Vans, Inc., which makes a shoe popular with skateboarders and also stages skateboarding events, financed the movie. To everyone's credit, the film does inform us that one of the ``best ever'' skaters (Jay Adams) squandered his promise on drugs and drink and now is in prison, but it spends far too little time exploring the underside of the skaters' fame. And the nostalgia with which everyone recalls the early days glosses over the pain some must have felt when the best _ or most business-savvy _ skaters became stars. Companies, including Vans, lured the top skaters away with lucrative sponsorship deals. The surf-shop owners who had mentored the team got left behind. When the skate stars left, the shop closed down. Because the filmmakers were insiders, they had terrific access to principals and to film footage, far more than anyone else could've gotten. But in a real sense, paying to see this film is like buying a T-shirt bearing the name of a tourist attraction or a promotional magazine in which the editorial copy is indistinguishable from advertising. It may be nice to have, but it's hard to escape the feeling the manufacturers should be paying you. ``Dogtown and Z-Boys'' Starring: Sean Penn (narrator), Jay Adams, Tony Alva Director: Stacy Peralta Screenwriters: Peralta and Craig Stecyk Rated PG-13: for language and some drug references Running time: 90 minutes Grade: B+ XXX END OF STORY 
