Dashboard navigation systems that display a map and give you directions are becoming increasingly popular. As you drive, a navigator's controller gathers information from Global Positioning System (GPS) satellites, the car's speedometer wire and its own gyroscope to pinpoint your location. It then references maps in its memory to place your car on a specific road. The controller updates position coordinates each second to update the car's position and velocity _ and to track whether you've reached an intersection, for example, or turned the wrong way. When you want directions, you use a remote control to enter a street address or select a prestored point of interest, such as a restaurant. Heuristic software explores all possible paths from the destination to your car's current position and calculates the fastest route based on information that describes the various road sizes, speed limits and so on. Now the tricky part. A synthesized voice tells you what your next move should be _ for instance, ``Make next right.'' But the navigator must announce the instruction at the appropriate time. You don't want to hear ``Prepare to turn right'' repeatedly for a whole minute, buy you also don't want to hear ``Turn right now!'' with only a second remaining. The software uses algorithms to fit the ongoing motion data into map data to determine what instruction to give you and when. The calculations are of no use, however, if the maps are not accurate. Navigation Technologies, a company based in Chicago, compiles the maps for all car navigators in the United States and most in Europe. For each new territory, the company begins with a government base map but employs an army of field analysts who drive every foot of every road to correct it and add details. ``The field guys are the real heart of our system,'' says Austin Klahn vice president of technology development at Navigation Technologies. As an analyst drives along, a Navigation Technologies system tracks his position. He enters into a connected laptop any of 150 physical features, such as stop signs, turn restrictions at intersections, curb cuts into parking lots and street addresses for every block. The laptops update Navigation Technologies' central database, which the company compresses onto a CD-ROM or DVD. Customers load the latest disc into their system and receive updates periodically by mail. NO PERFECT ROUTE Although Navigation Technologies creates the maps for U.S. navigators, manufacturers such as Delphi make the hardware installed by car companies. Automaker divisions, such as OnStar at General Motors, provide the services. ``There is an optimal routing algorithm,'' Klahn says, ``but it requires a lot of computing.'' A system could take 10 minutes to calculate the optimal route _ too long for a driver. But a one-second calculation might give a terrible route. Each service provider devises its own algorithms to settle on the best directions possible in a timely manner, typically within 10 seconds. MAKING TRACKS Though they are becoming more common in the United States, onboard navigation systems are more popular in Japan and Europe. About 15 percent to 20 percent of new-car buyers in Japan order models with onboard navigation systems, compared with 5 percent to 10 percent in Europe and 2 percent in the United States. The typical American system lists for $1,500 to $2,000; prices are lower in Japan and Europe. Market research indicates that if prices drop below $500, many Americans would order a navigation system as an option on a new car. -0- OPTIONAL SIDEBAR: THE ROAD AHEAD If makers of handheld digital assistants can increase their device memory to 500 megabytes or 1 gigabyte and add Global Positioning System (GPS) gear, they could offer navigators as well. That way, city dwellers, or visitors, could get walking or subway directions to restaurants and offices. The unit could also replace the in-dash part of a car navigator. Bernoulli and IBM are already offering 1-gigabyte microdrives for handhelds. -0- For more information on the topics covered in the Scientific American News Service, visit www.sciam.com. (Distributed by New York Times Special Features) EDITOR: Visit The New York Times Syndicate Web site at http://www.nytimes.com/syndicate for more information on SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN NEWS SERVICE and other features. NONSUBSCRIBERS: To subscribe to SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN NEWS SERVICE, please contact New York Times Syndicate sales representative Ana Pena at 212-499-3333. 0 
