On the evening of Dec. 27, 1991, a Manhattan resident named Ramon Roche ended an argument with his common-law wife by killing her. Court records show that he stabbed and slashed the woman, Lillian Rivera, nearly two dozen times. The medical examiner said she suffered wounds to the face, neck, chest, arms and hands. After killing Rivera, Roche went to a neighbor's apartment, where he smoked crack and snorted heroin. Later that night he would tell police that his wife had committed suicide. Two juries have convicted Roche of second-degree murder. The first conviction was overturned because of a procedural error. At a second trial, before a different judge, Roche was convicted again and sentenced to 25 years to life in prison. But last August that conviction was also overturned, in a ruling by the Appellate Division of State Supreme Court that I think was both wrong-headed and dangerous. If the ruling stands, Roche would get yet another trial. And when you conduct a trial more than a decade after a crime, there is always a greater danger that evidence could get lost or misplaced, or that witnesses disappear or die, or simply that memories fade. In short, Roche could go free. But the ruling, if it is allowed to stand, is especially dangerous in that it would make it much easier for men who kill their wives or girlfriends to escape the harshest punishment. At issue is the trial judge's charge to the jury. Roche's defense was that he did not kill Rivera. Nevertheless, the defense lawyer asked the judge, Renee White, to instruct the jury that if it determined that Roche had killed Rivera, it should also consider the possibility that he had acted under the influence of an extreme emotional disturbance. Under state law, a defendant found to have been in the throes of such a disturbance would be convicted of manslaughter rather than the more serious offense of second-degree murder. So this is not a defense to be made available haphazardly. For a jury to consider this defense, the evidence must show two things: that the defendant lost control ``due to mental trauma or exposure to extremely unusual and overwhelming stress,'' and that there was a reasonable explanation for this trauma or overwhelming stress. What happened in this case is that a man and a woman had an argument, and the man became enraged and killed the woman. Rage is not a defense against murder. White denied the defense lawyer's request. In its ruling last August, the appellate panel ruled that White was wrong, and that the jury should have been instructed to consider ``the affirmative defense of extreme emotional disturbance.'' The panel's majority said there was sufficient evidence from which a jury could conclude that the defendant had ``lost control,'' and that ``the source of the rage'' was the contentious relationship of the couple, including Rivera's tendency to yell and make ``demands of the defendant.'' The Manhattan district attorney's office has appealed that ruling to the State Court of Appeals, which will hear arguments on Wednesday. The ruling has upset organizations that provide services and legal help to victims of domestic violence. If men who kill their mates can offer up as a defense the fact that they were really _ really _ angry, they will literally be able to get away with murder. The Center for Battered Women's Legal Services has joined the district attorney's appeal as a friend of the court. A pro bono brief prepared for the center by Maria Galeno and Jane Manning of the Salans law firm in Manhattan said the August ruling lowered the threshold of evidence required for the defense of extreme emotional disturbance to the point where it would apply ``to almost any very violent killing within an intimate relationship.'' The lone dissent in the Appellate Division ruling was offered by Justice Peter Tom, who noted that the mere fact of a savage attack was not enough to warrant consideration of this particular defense. Otherwise, he said, the defense, ``rather than being an exceptional vehicle for mitigation in an exceptional case involving extraordinary emotional tumult, would be the routine defense in every case characterized by anger and violence.'' I couldn't agree more. 
