Q: What is the difference between a vegetarian and a vegan? Are these folks really healthier than us? _ G.C., Fort Worth A: This question is sure to bring me lots of mail, because there can be as many answers as there are vegetarian enthusiasts. (Note to readers: If the previous sentence does not refer to vegetarians as wackos, you can assume that my copy editors have no sense of humor.) But I digress. Vegetarians are to vegans as journalists are to copy editors _ the latter a slightly more obsessive subset of the former. Vegetarians eat no meat, sometimes defined as no beast or foul, and sometimes meaning no seafood, either, depending on who's making up the rules. Vegans take it a step further and consume no animal products. One vegan friend of mine explains that he doesn't eat anything that ever had a face or a mother. They don't want to make the rest of us feel bad, but they want us to know that they generally avoid products that, when produced for consumption, cause animals to suffer. But in the defense of these nutritional lefties, the American Dietetic Association says vegetarian diets are associated with a reduced risk of obesity, coronory artery disease, hypertension, diabetes, kidney disease and some forms of cancer. It's not that meat is the bad guy, but rather that vegetarians fill the void with lots fruits, veggies, legumes and nuts. But don't toss out the prime rib with the bath water. A healthful vegan diet requires some thought. The complete protein found in meat must be created with a combination of legumes, like beans and nuts, and grains, like rice, corn and whole-wheat breads. The increasing number of soy products on the market also may do the job. For the calcium found in milk, vegans can look for calcium-fortified soy milk, calcium-fortified orange juice and some veggies, like collard greens and broccoli. A primary source of iron for vegetarians who don't want to pop a bunch of supplements is fortified cereal. A small amount also is found in spinach, pumpkin seeds and raisins. Fortified cereal or supplements are the most reliable sources for vitamin B-12, as well. (Tina Beaumont-Clay writes a trivia column for the Fort Worth Star-Telegram. She can be reached at the Star-Telegram, Box 1870, Fort Worth, Texas 76101; or by e-mail at bclay(at)star-telegram.com. Visit the Star-Telegram's online services on the World Wide Web: www.star-telegram.com) nn 
