Not many garment factories have faced as much condemnation in the last year as Danmar Finishing in Brooklyn. First, community groups protested outside the sweater factory for not paying overtime. Then Rep. Nydia M. Velazquez, a Brooklyn Democrat, denounced Danmar. And on Monday, Shakira, the Hispanic singer-songwriter, distanced herself from the factory. On Wednesday, the U.S. Department of Labor sued Danmar for hundreds of thousands of dollars, accusing it of not paying overtime to employees when they worked more than 40 hours a week. The suit, filed in U.S. District Court in Brooklyn, accused Danmar of record-keeping violations and underpaying 175 past and present workers. While workers and community groups applauded the lawsuit, many asked why it took so long to act. ``If the Department of Labor is actually committed to helping low-wage workers in New York, it must act more often, more quickly and more forcefully to protect sweatshop abuses,'' said Ben Sachs, a lawyer for Make the Road by Walking, a workers rights group in Brooklyn. Nineteen months ago, the group gave Department of Labor officials evidence that Danmar made its employees clock out after 40 hours and then pressured them to go back to work without paying them extra. Randall Bartlett, a lawyer for Danmar, insisted that the company was innocent. ``I think when the facts come out, my clients will be vindicated,'' he said. ``I am aware of no violations that they've committed. These are innocent people being unfairly castigated.'' Many Danmar workers were angered last August when a Labor Department official wrote to Maria Arriaga, a sewing machine operator, to tell her that Danmar owed her $4,276 in overtime and that the department had no authority to order Danmar to pay up. The official wrote, ``We are not authorized to order or require an employer to pay back wages.'' ``I was sad,'' Arriaga said in an interview. ``I was sad because my understanding was that this agency had the responsibility to order bosses to pay what they owe.'' Upset by that letter, community groups held protest rallies outside Danmar and Velazquez sent irate letters to the department. In an April 25 letter to Labor Secretary Elaine Chao, Velazquez expressed ``grave dissatisfaction'' with the department and called its letter to Arriaga ``a distressing indication of the Wage and Hour Division's commitment to our nation's workers.'' She also voiced dismay that Danmar, which has 70 employees, had fired Arriaga, a 38-year-old Mexican immigrant. She said the department's failure to act was discouraging other immigrant workers from reporting abusive conditions. On Monday, Shakira issued a statement denouncing sweatshops in Brooklyn after it became known that she modeled clothes for Delia's, a company for which Danmar had produced clothes. In a statement, Delia's said that a manufacturer it used had subcontracted with Danmar, and that Delia's severed its relationship with that manufacturer last year. In her statement, Shakira said, ``I was unaware of the dispute in Brooklyn, and I would never knowingly wear any clothes or support any company who produced clothing with alleged wage and labor violations.'' Tammy McCutchen, director of the Labor Department's Wage and Hour Division, said the department's lawsuit was in no way a response to outside pressures. ``This is a case we've been working on for some time,'' she said. ``As we do in all investigations, when we complete an investigation we go to an employer.'' McCutchen said the department first investigated the factory when it was known as Mario Sweater. The inquiry ended when the factory closed, but was resumed when it reopened under the Danmar name. 
