I went looking for the Kentucky Derby winner Thursday morning. Like most people trying to handicap this year's race, I nearly gave up. Oh, I already knew the horse's identity. It's seeing him in the flesh that took some doing. A 10-minute drive from Churchill Downs stands an off-track wagering center and former harness-racing oval that serves as a spillover training facility for thoroughbred horses. Follow a winding lane between family houses and an industrial strip, avoid !ital!that right turn because it leads to a dead end, and take the right just beyond the sign that reads ``Hidden Entrance.'' Talk your way past the security gate, park in the gravel lot and you're almost there. Among a small block of concrete barns is one marked with the green silhouette of a kangaroo. In stall No. 2, apparently thriving in the care of a 42-year-old trainer from Australia, a 3-year-old gelding named Perfect Drift lives in happy obscurity, at least until he takes his shot at glory Saturday in the world's most famous horse race. ``It's quieter here, isn't it?'' said trainer Murray Johnson, wearing a riding helmet on this particular morning instead of his trademark bush hat. Perfect Drift is the only one of the 20 Kentucky Derby horses who isn't residing this week amid the hustle and bustle of the sprawling Churchill Downs backside or in quarantine in Lexington. Out of sight, out of mind, out of minicam range. All season, he has been flying, as Johnson likes to say, ``under the radar.'' Perfect Drift spent the winter racing at Turfway Park, the less- glamorous Kentucky track up near Cincinnati. Perfect Drift scored his biggest victory in March in Turfway's Spiral Stakes, an easily overlooked Triple Crown prep race. Perfect Drift hasn't competed since then, letting other horses gobble up the publicity. All of which helped Johnson to get better than 90-1 odds for his $100 bet in the second pool of Churchill Downs' Derby future wager back in March. The rest of us will have to settle for something in the 15-1 range Saturday if the track's morning-line handicapper is accurate. Favorite Harlan's Holiday is solid, Bobby Frankel's Medaglia d'Oro scares me, and the foreign horses could be tough in a year when the American crop is rated sub-par overall. But Perfect Drift is your best shot at making big money in the 128th Run for the Roses. He fits a Derby handicapping model that has defined the Derby in thoroughbred racing's modern era, which began when the autumn Breeders' Cup came along in the mid-1980s and altered the shape of the Triple Crown prep campaign. Seven times in the past 17 years, the Derby champion has fit all three of these simple criteria: --Demonstrated talent by winning one of the eight key prep races: the Santa Anita Derby, Florida Derby, Blue Grass Stakes, Wood Memorial, Louisiana Derby, Arkansas Derby, Spiral Stakes and Lexington Stakes. --Demonstrated stretch-running ability by passing at least five other horses between the early stages and the wire in one of his pre-Derby stakes races. --Went off at odds of 8-1 or more in the Derby. (The seven times that pattern has paid off include Alysheba, who actually was disqualified for interference after finishing first in the 1987 Blue Grass, and Grindstone, who paid 5.90-1 odds as part of a two-horse entry but would have paid huge if he'd been uncoupled. However, even five out of 17, at those odds, represents a successful angle.) Perfect Drift is the only horse in this year's Derby who fits all three criteria. In fact, he's the only horse who fits the first two. He won the Spiral by rallying from sixth to first under jockey Eddie Delahoussaye from the half-mile mark to the finish of the 1[-mile race. In his start before that, he rallied from seventh to finish second by a nose to Request for Parole. Are there knocks on Perfect Drift? Sure. His six-week layoff before the Derby would be the longest of any winner since Needles in 1956. But ... taking it easy for a spell before the Derby might be a plus in a year when the many so-called late bloomers were knocking themselves out just to qualify for the race. His opposition doesn't include any of the horses considered top Derby contenders. But ... Request for Parole, with whom he has traded photo-finish decisions, has run close to Harlan's Holiday this year, implying that Perfect Drift can compete with the public choice. He's a gelding, and no gelding has won the Derby since Clyde Van Dusen in 1929. ... But that's one of those historical benchmarks that's bound to be shattered sometime. Before the most-talked-about 3-year-olds plodded through slow final eighth-of-a-mile splits in their 1[-mile prep races, raising doubts about their chances in the 1\-mile Derby, Perfect Drift ran the final furlong of the Spiral in about 12 seconds. ``We felt the Spiral was probably not the toughest -- well, definitely not the toughest -- prep race. We knew that six weeks out, the timing isn't suitable for some people,'' Johnson said in a booming baritone, explaining his choice of preps. The Spiral was known as the Jim Beam Stakes when Lil E. Tee won it en route to his upset victory in the 1992 Derby. The difference is that Lil E. Tee ran second in the Arkansas Derby in between. Johnson, a one-time California assistant to John Gosden whose previous Derby runner was 1991 fourth-place finisher Green Alligator, chose to keep Perfect Drift dormant for six weeks partly on the advice of two-time winning rider Delahoussaye, who feared another start for the son of Dynaformer would send him over the top in fitness terms. Perfect Drift is owned by a Kansas City heart surgeon who loves to fish. The horse's name has something to do with casting. The world might have to start learning these little facts come Saturday. Sometimes, the road to the Derby winner's circle runs through a hidden entrance.  HOLLYWOOD PARK STANDINGS Through Wednesday Jockeys--Wins Victor Espinoza--11 Pat Valenzuela--8 Alex Solis--5 Laffit Pincay--4 Trainers--Wins John Sadler--4 Bob Baffert--3 Craig Dollase--3 Jerry Dutton--3   PINCAY WATCH If Medaglia d'Oro goes off at his 6-1 morning-line odds on Saturday, he'll be Laffit Pincay's best-regarded Kentucky Derby mount since Houston went off at 5-1 as half of an entry -- and finished eighth -- in 1989. Pincay's record career-wins total is up to 9,344.  ON THE STAKES SCHEDULE Hollywood Park Saturday!dlim! --$100,000 Senorita Stakes, 3-year-old fillies, 1 mile on turf Sunday --$100,000 Inglewood Handicap, 3-year-olds and up, 1 1/16 miles in turf Churchill Downs Friday --$500,000 Kentucky Oaks, 3-year-old fillies, 1[ miles --$300,000 Louisville Handicap, 3-year-olds and up, 1] miles on turf Saturday --$1 million Kentucky Derby, 3-year-olds, 1\ miles --$400,000 Woodford Reserve Turf Classic, 3-year-olds and up, 1[ miles on turf A FIRST GLANCE AT THE DERBY HORSES The Daily News' Kevin Modesti looks at the field for Saturday's Kentucky Derby. NO.--HORSE--JOCKEY--ODDS--COMMENT 1--Johannesburg--Gary Stevens--6-1--Don't underestimate the 2-year-old champ's Irish trainer 2--Wild Horses--Rene Douglas--50-1--It's hard to get your first stakes victory in Kentucky Derby 3--Perfect Drift--Eddie Delahoussaye--15-1--No jockey is more creative than two-time winner Eddie D. 4--Lusty Latin--Glenn Corbett--30-1--Was he catching or were leaders stopping at Santa Anita? 5--War Emblem--Victor Espinoza--20-1--Front-runners rarely shake loose from Derby competition 6--Ocean Sound--Alex Solis--50-1--Jockey's mounts have outrun their odds four years in row 7--Request for Parole--Robby Albarado--20-1--No pizazz, but he has knocked heads with the best 8--Essence of Dubai--David Flores--15-1--He has a shot at Dubai sheiks' coveted first Derby win 9--Medaglia d'Oro--Laffit Pincay--6-1--Top stakes trainer Frankel is confident and he should be 10--Buddha--Pat Day--5-1--Late-bloomer worked hard to win fastest prep -- too hard? 11--Private Emblem--Donnie Meche--20-1--If New York-bred keeps improving, he can't be ruled out 12--Castle Gandolfo--Jerry Bailey--20-1--At the odds, less-accomplished of Irish pair is better bet 13--Proud Citizen--Mike Smith--30-1--Lukas' colt has similarities to Charismatic, but not enough 14--Harlan's Holiday--Edgar Prado--9-2--Closest thing to ``safe'' bet is this consistent horse to show 15--Came Home--Chris McCarron--5-1--Too bad a tough guy like this doesn't fit Derby distanced 16--Saarland--John Velazquez--15-1--Minor throat surgery could help best-bred entrant to bloom 17--Danthebluegrassman--Kent Desormeaux--50-1--Traffic trouble hurt at Santa Anita; bad karma hurts here 18--It'sallinthechase--Eddie Martin Jr.--50-1--Distinction: 2-for-14 record gives him most losses in field 19--Easy Grades--Jorge Chavez--20-1--Ran stretch even slower than Came Home's at Santa Anita 20--Blue Burner--Corey Nakatani--30-1--Unlikely to be owner George Steinbrenner's next Mr. May --Horse number is same as post-position number. --Morning-line odds were set by Churchill Downs' Mike Battaglia. 
