It's almost as if Essence Of Dubai now senses the gravity of the situation. The colt who seemed to lose his attention while working out in previous days at Churchill Downs suddenly looked intent against a backdrop of tragic circumstances during his final Kentucky Derby workout when he ran through the stretch Tuesday. His ears were pricked upward, and he appeared to gallop eagerly around the turn once he finished the serious work. He kept the goofing off and playfulness _ the rearing up, bucking and head tosses _ at a minimum. And that would match the attitude around the barn where the Godolphin Stable's horses are housed this week at Churchill. The workers at the barn awoke Monday morning to find out that one of their horses lost her life late Sunday night. And she was no slacker. Tempera, the champion filly who won on Breeders' Cup day in October, died less than 72 hours after a harmless-looking fever quickly complicated and turned into a catastrophe. Tom Albertrani, who handles the horses in Kentucky while owner Mohammed al Maktoum and trainer Saeed bin Suroor oversee the rest of the Godolphin Stable between Dubai and Europe, never seems to be one to speak loudly even when things are good. But he's answering questions regarding Tempera in a mumble pitch. ``Devastating,'' is almost all that he can offer. Tempera was to run in the Kentucky Oaks on Friday, which is like the Derby for fillies. Her place will be taken by Imperial Gesture, who beat Tempera in their last race together in Dubai. Considering that she's taking on the likes of Take Charge Lady and You, that will be a tough race to win. But in the Derby, Essence Of Dubai might represent Godolphin's best chance of winning the Derby after four years of trying. ``We think Essence Of Dubai is better than what we bring before,'' bin Suroor said. ``We think we have a good chance this year.'' The chase started in 1998, when Sheikh Mohammed purchased Worldly Manner for a reported $3 million to $5 million when he was a 2-year-old. He finished seventh in 1999. Godolphin finished sixth the next year with China Visit, and that has been the stable's best results. Essence Of Dubai, a $2.3 million yearling purchase, has been treated differently. He came over from Dubai almost two weeks earlier than when the Godolphin horses usually arrive in Kentucky. He spent his 2-year-old season racing in Southern California. He won a race in Dubai at 1 1/4 miles, the Derby distance. ``All of those things are going to help them,'' four-time Derby-winning trainer D. Wayne Lukas said. ``It's going to happen for them one day just because of the amount of money and the numbers of horses they have.'' BRIEFLY _ Bob Baffert has trained two Kentucky Derby winners and already has War Emblem in this year's field. But he might have joined the group of trainers that has entered a horse that doesn't belong when he dropped Danthebluegrassman's name into the entry box. Danthebluegrassman was last in the Santa Anita Derby after tugging against his jockey heading into the first turn. ``A lot of my second-stringers have beaten my first-stringers,'' he said, comparing the situation to Real Quiet's Derby victory over stablemate Indian Charlie in 1998. _ The addition of Danthebluegrassman bumped Windward Passage from the field because the Derby is limited to 20 starters with the highest earnings in graded stakes races. Windward Passage is trained by Steve Asmussen, who still has Arkansas Derby winner Private Emblem in the race. _ The Kentucky Oaks suffered another notable defection when Bella Bellucci was scratched because ``she's not 100 percent,'' according to Demi O'Byrne, the racing manager for owner Michael Tabor. The Oaks, to be conducted Friday, earlier lost Tempera and Belterra from the field. nn 
