Vidya Iyer and her husband are expecting their first child in June. That's happy news for the Iyers, who live in North Andover, Mass. And it's happy news for their relatives in India, near Bombay. Vidya has stopped working as an accountant to prepare for the baby's arrival. All along, she has been expecting help from her mother, the kind of help so many expectant mothers count on. But Iyer is now worried that her mother, set to make the long, expensive trip from India to Massachusetts this month, will have to return far sooner than the six months the family had been counting on. A rule change proposed by the Immigration and Naturalization Service would limit the length of time visitors on tourist and business visas can stay in the country. The proposed rule, which could go into effect as soon as two weeks from now, would end the standard six-month visa and grant a 30-day one to most visitors. Extensions could be obtained in certain circumstances. INS officials say the change is necessary after the Sept. 11 attacks, but critics have said the changes would restrict family visits, particularly those from older relatives who travel long distances at great cost to see loved ones in the United States. More than 118,000 people have signed Internet petitions protesting the proposed rule change. In the face of such opposition, INS officials have begun emphasizing the agency's flexibility to allow some visitors to stay for longer periods, for family-related and other reasons. That clarification has not satisfied critics, however. ``You can't give the INS an arbitrary authority to determine how long families can visit with one another,'' said Pradeep Bhatia, a San Mateo, Calif., investment banker who has promoted one of the Internet petition drives to keep the new rule from going into effect. The period for the public to submit comments on the proposed rule change, which the INS announced last month, ends May 13. At that point, the agency can make the rule change official, amend it, or scrap it. Opposition to the proposed change is particularly strong among Asian Americans from India, China, and Taiwan, whose relatives have often taken extended trips to visit family members who live in different parts of the United States. Some members of Congress have been hearing complaints from their constituents. Representative Frank Pallone, a New Jersey Democrat, spoke against the rule change on the House floor last week. Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the immigration subcommittee of the Senate Judiciary Committee, said he would look into the issue. ``Millions of persons enter the US legally each year to visit family and friends or conduct business,'' Kennedy said in a statement this week. ``In strengthening security at our borders, we must strike a careful balance between safeguarding the admission of honest and law-abiding persons and deterring the entry of potential terrorists. I intend to carefully review the INS's proposed rule limiting the period visitors can stay in our country to make sure that this rule strikes this proper balance.'' Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Newton and a member of the House Judiciary Committee who has worked extensively on immigration issues, said he supports the change as long as the INS allows people to stay longer than 30 days if their circumstances warrant. ``I'm a big supporter of immigration,'' Frank said. ``We let people come for specific reasons and specific time periods, but we do nothing to monitor it. I think starting with 30 days is a good way for us to get a handle on this.'' INS officials say the 30-day period is just that, a starting point. ``Fundamentally, the system doesn't change at all,'' said Russell Bergeron, an INS spokesman. ``In no way will it impede the ability of people who need to stay in the US longer than 30 days. Nor will it impede the ability of people who have demonstrated that they have a legitimate reason to want to stay beyond 30 days.'' As an example of when visitors could be allowed to stay longer than 30 days, Bergeron cited relatives whose family member is expecting a child. They could apply for a visa to stay for the duration of the pregnancy and even a month or two afterward, he said. Iyer said she hoped the INS would use that flexibility in her family's case. But she still would like to see the INS stick to its six-month policy, in part because it's unclear which exceptions would be allowed. ``Why create this whole thing and make it such a hassle?'' she said. When the INS proposed the rule change last month, initial complaints centered on how it might effect US commerce. But Bergeron said INS data show that 75 percent of business travelers from abroad leave after an average of 17 days. There are no comparable data for visitors on pleasure trips, but many overstay their visas, Bergeron said. INS officials have acknowledged that it does not have the resources to aggressively investigate visitors who overstay their visas, because their number exceeds 3 million, Bergeron said. Limiting visits to 30 days would alert the INS five months sooner that someone has remained in the country illegally. Pallone, a founder of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian-Americans, said he doubted that the proposed rule would result in better national security. 
