Mike Bibby, Doug Christie and reserve Bobby Jackson form one of the league's more agile backcourts. The Kings, however, do have their concerns, especially when Nash and Van Exel are on the court at the same time. ``They're tough because you really can't pressure either one of them,'' said the 6-foot-6 Christie, who averaged 12.5 points, 5.3 assists and 4.8 rebounds against Utah in the first round. ``If you pressure one, he gives the ball to the other guy and he brings it up just as well because he's a point guard, also. They're more of like combo guards, because they both shoot the ball so well. They're not just point guards.'' Christie said one way to attack the Mavs' small backcourt _ Nash is 6-3 and Van Exel 6-1 _ is to use the Kings' height. Peja Stojakovic, a 6-9 All-Star small forward, often slips into the backcourt with Christie. ``When the opportunity presents itself, you have advantages against them, but we want to stay with what we do and that's going inside, moving and things like that,'' Christie said. ``We don't want to get away so from our game plan, because that's what all those gimmicks are trying to get you to do, is get you to focus on something else than what you're already good at.'' Ready to run After a four-game series with the slow-down Jazz, the Kings are ready to run again. The NBA's second-highest scoring team during the regular season (104.6 points) didn't break 91 in beating Utah three games to one. The Mavericks led the league in scoring at 105.2 during the season and averaged 112.7 in sweeping Minnesota. ``We play the same type of basketball, so it's going to be a nice series,'' Kings center Vlade Divac said. ``But I'd rather have Utah in the second round, rather than Dallas.'' Added reserve Scot Pollard: ``If both teams hold to form, we're going to be up-and-down, score a lot of points and have a lot of crazy passes. ... I believe we play basketball the way it's meant to be played and Dallas is second in that category.'' Though the high-octane offenses of both teams are on display in what promised to be an entertaining series, Kings coach Rick Adelman said the key will be defense against the Mavericks. ``If you don't defend these guys in transition, get some resistance there, you're going to have a hard time,'' he said. ``So I really think we have to make stops along the way. You're not going to stop them all the time, \Rbut\S you've got to make enough to give yourself a chance to win.'' Who's the favorite? The Mavericks, who won three of four against Sacramento during the season, are calling themselves the underdogs. The Kings, owners of the best record in the league at 61-21, say they are. What gives? ``If we go on numbers, we're the odds-on favorite, but if not, we're just another team right now,'' Christie said. ``... We haven't done anything yet. We haven't accomplished anything. We did this same thing last year. We haven't stepped into new territory yet. That would be winning this round. We don't believe that we're the favorites. We don't believe that we're the underdogs. We just want to go out there and win the game. Whatever the odds are, who cares?'' nn 
