Michael Peca, caption of the New York Islanders, has already gone on a fact-finding mission about what it is like to recover from reconstructive knee surgery. One of the people he talked to _ or tried to talk to _ was Islanders defenseman Radek Martinek, who had surgery in December but barely speaks English. ``It was a challenging conversation,'' Peca said Thursday, smiling. And that was just the start. No member of the organization faces more of a challenge during the off-season than Peca, whose left knee was torn up in a collision with Darcy Tucker in the fifth game of the tempestuous playoff series with Toronto. Asked Thursday whether he was angry with Tucker, whose blindside hip check will sideline Peca for about six months, Peca said he was angry with a lot of things that happened during the series _ Gary Roberts' concussion-causing hit of Islanders defenseman Kenny Jonsson being foremost among them. ``You know what?'' Peca said. ``I don't want to sit here and cry, like I'm an angel.'' But finally, he said he was disappointed. Injuries are a part of hockey, he said, but suffering a torn anterior cruciate ligament on what Peca has already called a dirty hit went beyond normal. Now Peca is in a holding pattern. Five days after Tucker's hit, Peca has not established a timetable for his recovery because his doctors want the swelling in his knee to subside before they assess the damage. His medial cruciate ligament is also torn. ``It's going to be a lot of hard work,'' Peca said. His rehabilitation is the primary concern among the Islanders, who met Thursday at Nassau Coliseum to review the season with their coaches, to clean out their lockers and to sign mementoes that filled three long tables. ``This day is always the saddest day of the season,'' Peca said. Although the Islanders fell 13 victories short of their goal of winning the franchise's first Stanley Cup in 19 years, they were much more upbeat about what the team had accomplished than they were after a seventh-game loss Tuesday night in Toronto. Coach Peter Laviolette said he felt as if he were in mourning Wednesday, as if he would be sick to his stomach merely contemplating every aspect of the loss. By Thursday he had begun to reconsider what the Islanders accomplished in his first season. ``We took tremendous strides as a team, as an organization, as a community,'' Laviolette said. ``People love the Islanders.'' Next year's team will probably closely resemble this season's team, which finished with 96 points and the fourth-best record in the Eastern Conference. The marquee players _ Peca, goaltender Chris Osgood and center Aleksei Yashin _ are signed. Defenseman Adrian Aucoin and right wing Mark Parrish top the Islanders' list of restricted free agents, but both say they would love to stay to help the Islanders achieve more next season. They are comfortable here. Aucoin said: ``You don't want to keep saying, `Oh, we learned a lot.' That's what most losing teams say.'' The Islanders could go after one or more of an enticing group of unrestricted free agents during the off-season. That group includes Tony Amonte of Chicago, Bill Guerin of Boston and Paul Kariya of Anaheim. ``Anytime you can add a 40-goal scorer, it's going to make it a little better,'' said left wing Shawn Bates, who attended Boston University after Amonte and was a teammate of Guerin's in Boston. But the Islanders generally believe they could do well with the players they already have. As the pugnacious right wing Steve Webb said, ``Our team's one of the tightest I've ever seen.'' (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.) Laviolette added, ``I've learned we've got a pretty tight family here.'' That is apparently already a selling point. Kip Miller, who started the season with Grand Rapids in the American Hockey League and ended it as the Islanders' top goal scorer in the playoffs, is also an unrestricted free agent who probably drew some attention from other teams in the last two weeks. He would like to continue with the Islanders. ``I'm a loyal person,'' Miller said. ``I'd like to stay in one place if I can.'' The Islanders accomplished so much together that they would like to see how far they can go together. The loss to Toronto, Peca said, was bitter, but it was an important lesson for a relatively inexperienced team like the Islanders to experience. ``That should all give us a little incentive for the team to work a little harder this summer,'' he said. Peca, who established a career high with 59 points in the regular season, knows he will have to work harder than his teammates. He probably will not be ready to rejoin his team for training camp in mid-September, but as Aucoin said of Peca, ``He's one of those guys who fights through everything.'' Peca missed two games early in the season because of a concussion. He had four of his teeth knocked out late in the season. He endured. He has never had a knee injury before, and he acknowledges he has a lot to learn and a long way to go to get back. But he sees a payoff. ``I really like this group of guys we have,'' Peca said. 
