XY$Z4(NU)T. It is a password only a security expert could love. Many people have trouble remembering random combinations of letters and symbols. So they jot difficult passwords down near their computer or replace them with far simpler combinations, making their systems vulnerable to attack. To solve this problem, some researchers are investigating an alternative to text passwords: pictures. A system developed by Microsoft, for example, uses a single image with a great deal of detail within it _ an anatomical drawing of the bones of the body, perhaps, or a composite of 40 national flags, or a group portrait of 30 presidents. To create a password, the user clicks on a few of the hundreds of locations available on the image. On the anatomical drawing, for instance, the user might click on a jawbone followed by a bone in the wrist, followed by part of the spine. ``You don't choose the whole skull or whole hand,'' said Dr. Darko Kirovski, a Microsoft researcher who has demonstrated the project. Those might be easy targets for a hacker to guess. ``You just choose one particular bone,'' he said. Users need to remember the location and order of each click that constitutes the password, but they can make it slightly easier for themselves by setting a range of pixels around each location that the program will accept. ``You aren't likely to click on exactly the same pixel the next time you sign on,'' Kirovski said. But so long as the click is within, say, 10 pixels of the first location, the system will recognize the user. The pixels that the owner chooses are then converted into a number that represents the password. As long as the picture the user chooses has many details within it, three or four clicks will provide the security of a good eight-character password, Kirovski said. The user can always add more clicks to create a more complicated password. For images, generally, the less abstract the better, Kirovski said. The program won't work well with a Mondrian painting, for example, but will work nicely with a Hieronymus Bosch, with its abundance of demons, peasants and landscape details. To help people choose appropriate password images, Kirovski said, he and two colleagues, Paul Roberts and Nebojsa Jojic, are developing a program to evaluate a picture for its suitability, testing to ensure that it is sufficiently complicated. Kirovski believes that at least 500 clickable regions are needed. In coming months the group will be testing to see how people respond to the picture password system, he said. ``The key thing is that text passwords are limited to the choices on a keyboard,'' he said. ``Why use something this limited when you can use an image with huge graphical diversity?'' Bruce Schneier, chief technical officer of Counterpane Internet Security, a company in Cupertino, Calif., that monitors networks for suspicious activities, said that efforts over the past decade to come up with image-based passwords might eventually prove helpful. ``Many systems are only as secure as the weakest password,'' he said. For one thing, he said, people choose passwords that are far too simple. ``The word `password' is the most common password,'' he said, ``and that's only when leaving a blank isn't allowed.'' Photographs of human faces are the basis for another system being tested by the Real User Corp., based in Washington. A person who wants a password picks out five or more faces; then, to log on, he identifies each of the target faces as it pops up in a grid with eight decoy faces. ``People's ability to recognize faces they are familiar with is well known,'' said James G. Melonas, chief operations officer of the company. ``We build on the ability to remember faces better than a string of letters and numbers.'' Dr. Adrian Perrig, a researcher at the University of California at Berkeley who has worked for several years on an image-based password system, said he was concerned about the shoulder surfing that might occur if picture passwords became common. ``People can watch over your shoulder and see which pictures you are using,'' he said, and then impersonate the user. To get around this problem, Perrig is working on a new password approach based on navigation through a virtual world. People first become familiar with the world; then, when they want to sign on, the system puts them at a random spot in the world _ a street corner, for example _ and they have to find a particular location. ``We think it may be harder for shoulder surfers to follow a path,'' Perrig said, in the same way that it is difficult for passengers in a car to retrace a tricky route, but relatively easy for the driver. Dr. Michael Reiter, a professor of electrical and computer engineering at Carnegie Mellon University who has worked on a picture password system, said that it had not been proved that graphical passwords will strengthen security. ``We'd like to believe that pictures are more memorable and therefore higher-quality keys,'' he said. ``But the truth is that we really won't know until we have extensive user trials.'' Another problem with graphical passwords is the cost. Marc Boroditsky, chief executive of Passlogix, based in New York, said that his company, which specializes in computer security, had offered clients the option of graphical passwords. But customers preferred to stick with their old-fashioned passwords, he said, primarily because the cost of training and supporting people as they learn a new system was too steep. 
