The runs came, ever so briefly. Then they went. As far as the Mariners were concerned, they were never seen again. After four separate rain delays last night -- including a one-hour, 22-minute pause before the game started -- the Mariners were literally and figuratively all wet, victims of a 9-2, eight-inning loss at the hands of the Chicago White Sox. ``Those were miserable conditions out there,'' manager Lou Piniella said after Seattle's fifth loss in six games, a worse stretch than any dry spell the Mariners ran into during the 2001 season. ``It wasn't easy out there -- it was just a tough night to play. But I'm sure they are thinking differently in the other clubhouse.'' The Mariners had two bad stretches last year -- losing four in a row in September and dropping five of seven in mid-June. In 2000, the Mariners fell out of first place in August and September, losing eight in a row and 15 of 18. The current stretch is arguably worse than either of last season's slides. The Mariners can't hit enough to take a lead. Much of the time, they can't pitch well enough to keep the game close. Last night was a case in point. After three of the rain delays were in the books, the Mariners' dead-in-the-water offense came to life, capitalizing on a Chicago error to score a couple of unearned runs, whittling into what had been a 3-0 White Sox lead. The Seattle offense evaporated after that, however. The White Sox were just warming to the task. Shigetoshi Hasegawa, who had not allowed a run in nine April games, gave up one run in the seventh inning of his first May day. Rookie Brian Fitzgerald, ripped by Carlos Lee for a two-run homer in the eighth, gave up five runs before his night was over. The fourth rain delay occurred just after the White Sox scored those five, blowing the Mariners out of the water. At 12:09 a.m CDT, the game was called. The last time the Mariners won a game, it was 1-0 Saturday, when they managed one hit against the Yankees. The win before that? 1-0 over the Angels, one week ago. The most recent legitimate offensive show by Seattle was last Monday, a 16-5 rout of Anaheim. Seattle has scored 18 runs in the seven subsequent games, an average of just over 2.5 per game. The rain didn't help the Mariners last night. But the White Sox, as Piniella suggested, played in the rain with no noticeable detriment. Ryan Franklin, getting his second start, gave the Mariners a creditable effort, allowing three runs in six innings. ``That was very difficult for me,'' Franklin said. ``They first said they were going to start the game at 7:45, so I got all hot. Then the rain came back, and I had to shut it down. ``Then in the fourth inning, I had the bases loaded. Then they cleared the field. I came back and only gave up one more run there, so I felt pretty good, all things considered.'' Royce Clayton's homer in the third inning gave Chicago the lead. A run-scoring double by Jose Valentin and sacrifice fly from Sandy Alomar -- after a 16-minute rain delay -- made it 3-0 after four innings. Ten days ago, the Mariners might have scoffed at a 3-0 deficit. Now, it looks like Kilimanjaro. Seattle didn't get a runner to second base until the sixth. When the Mariners finally scored in the seventh, it was thanks to first baseman Paul Konerko, who threw a ball away at second base. Ruben Sierra, who had been on second, came home to score. Mike Cameron, who had been on first, made it to third. Cameron scored moments later when Bob Howry, the third Chicago pitcher, surrendered a first-pitch sacrifice fly to Desi Relaford. The Mariners had the opportunity for more, but as has been all too typical lately, didn't get it. Jeff Cirillo walked, then he and Carlos Guillen pulled a double steal with Ichiro Suzuki batting. After reliever Damaso Marte walked Ichiro intentionally, Marte induced a pop-up from Mark McLemore, preserving the Chicago lead at 3-2. That gave the Mariners some hope. Hasegawa's run hurt. Fitzgerald's were back-breakers. For Piniella, one point in the game underscored the Mariners' offensive problems. When Guillen and Cirillo pulled off a double steal in the seventh, Ichiro was walked. It was the sixth time this year that Ichiro has been put on base intentionally. ``That tells me we've got to get more production from the No. 2 spot,'' Piniella said. ``Six intentional walks for a leadoff hitter? I've never heard of such a thing.'' Guillen, hitting .326, could be the No. 2 hitter in the lineup tonight. 
