The fight over the future of Hewlett-Packard _ one of the most costly and acrimonious proxy contests in corporate history _ appeared to have all but ended on Tuesday, after a Delaware court dismissed a suit by Walter B. Hewlett. With Hewlett's court challenge thrown out, the door now appears open to completing Hewlett-Packard's merger with Compaq Computer, the largest ever in the computer industry. Hewlett, an heir who served on the Hewlett-Packard board for 15 years, led the opposition to the company's planned merger with Compaq. Hewlett-Packard won the shareholder vote on March 19 by less than 3 percent, according to a preliminary tally by inspectors. In a statement issued Tuesday night, Hewlett said he would not appeal to the Delaware Supreme Court and would now back the merger. ``I have disagreed with the board over the merits of acquiring Compaq; however, I have always been dedicated to enhancing value for H.P. shareholders,'' he said in the statement. ``I will therefore now do everything possible to support the successful implementation of H.P.'s acquisition of Compaq and encourage others who have shared my views in the past several months to do the same.'' Hewlett also strongly suggested that even though he was nudged off the Hewlett-Packard board last Friday, he will continue to use his large shareholding and his personal stature to be a thorn in the side of the company's management, led by Carleton S. Fiorina, the chief executive. ``My involvement with H.P. will not end today,'' he said in the statement. ``I will continue to monitor the company's performance to ensure that it acts in the best interests of all stockholders.'' In a brief statement on Tuesday, Hewlett-Packard said the company was ``gratified by the ruling and we look forward to the opportunity to move on.'' The simple wish to move on, though, will not be easy in the wake of what has been a divisive, emotionally draining proxy battle. Hewlett's opposition to the Compaq merger was wholeheartedly supported by many Hewlett-Packard employees, though just how widespread the internal opposition might be is not clear. And the success of the Compaq merger will critically depend on the efforts of the Hewlett-Packard work force, as well as the Compaq employees. Hewlett-Packard's management said last week that May 7 was the target date for completing the deal. Hewlett-Packard also has some fence-mending to do with its shareholders, since more than 48 percent of the proxies cast were against the deal. Eighteen percent of the Hewlett-Packard shares were voted in opposition by the Hewlett and Packard heirs and their foundations. In his suit, and during a three-day trial in Wilmington last week, Hewlett contended that Hewlett-Packard's management had withheld from shareholders important information that contradicted its claims of benefits from the merger. His second claim was that the company's management improperly ``coerced or enticed'' a sizable institutional shareholder, Deutsche Bank Asset Management, to switch its vote in favor of the deal at the last minute. In a 43-page decision, Chancellor William B. Chandler III found that the testimony of Hewlett executives was credible and that Hewlett's side simply did not prove its allegations. Nor was it a close call, in Chandler's view. At one point, he called the management's testimony ``compelling.'' At another point, writing of the plaintiff's inability to meet an evidentiary threshold, he said, ``they completely fail to do so.'' ``He lays out the facts as he found them and says the plaintiffs did not meet the burden of proof,'' said Michael Hanrahan, a partner at Prickett, Jones &AMP; Elliott, a Delaware law firm not involved in the suit. ``It is difficult to find a legal issue here for the Delaware Supreme Court.'' Most of Chandler's opinion dealt with the failure-to-disclose allegation. During the trial, Hewlett's lawyers introduced documents from the business groups from both companies who were planning the merger that showed the groups did not see how they would meet their financial targets. Some documents characterized the lack of progress as ``ugly'' or a ``frightening reality check.'' Hewlett and Compaq executives said these were preliminary planning exercises, and gave an incomplete picture of the overall design for the merger. The executives testified that they never wavered in their belief that they could reduce costs by $2.5 billion by 2004 and that revenue for the company would fall by no more than 4.9 percent after eliminating overlapping product lines. Accordingly, Hewlett-Packard argued, management had no duty to disclose the incomplete, even misleading, information from the business groups' planning exercises. Chandler found management's arguments persuasive. ``Nothing in the record indicates that H.P. lied to or deliberately misled'' shareholders, he wrote. The judge also found the vote-buying accusation unconvincing. Hewlett asserted that Deutsche Bank switched 17 million votes in favor of the deal because of improper conduct by Hewlett-Packard, threatening to deprive the bank of future banking business unless its asset managers voted for the merger. Fiorina did close a conference call with the bank's asset managers with the comment that having the merger approved was ``of great importance to our ongoing relationship.'' But Chandler wrote, ``That statement does not, in my opinion, demonstrate that Fiorina was attempting to coerce Deutsche Bank.'' What the judge termed troubling, however, was Deutsche Bank's conduct in the matter. Its investment banking arm arranged the last-minute conference call between senior Hewlett-Packard executives and the bank's asset managers. ``This fact,'' Chandler wrote, ``raises clear questions about the integrity of the internal ethical wall that purportedly separates Deutsche Bank's asset management division from its commercial division.'' The Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulators are investigating Deutsche Bank's conduct in the Hewlett-Packard proxy contest. 
