Entertainment and culture stories from The New York Times News Service for Saturday, May 4. 	Saturday Arts and Ideas Page 	KAMASUTRA-WOMEN (Undated) _ For generations countless readers have pored over the Kamasutra, the ancient Hindu text of erotic love, scanning it, sometimes furtively, for descriptions of exotic sexual positions. But now a new translation offers a radically different view of the famous sex manual, and argues that the most widely read English version is riddled with errors and suppresses the role of women. ``This translation will change peoples' understanding of this book and of ancient India,'' said David Shulman, professor of Indian Studies and Comparative Religion at Hebrew University in Jerusalem. ``Previous translations are hopelessly outdated, inadequate and misguided.'' By Dinitia Smith. 	CHINA-MODERNITY (Undated) _ Chinese intellectuals today are engaging in a full-throated debate about the country's future. In academic conferences at home and abroad and in journals of scholarly opinion that are cloaked in the protective veil of academic jargon (and, often, English), political scientists, sociologists and economists are sparring openly about the state of the country's quasicapitalist, mostly antidemocratic government. The question that captivates leading minds there is the same one that engaged court intellectuals at the end of the Qing dynasty, when China first began opening itself to the West at the end of the 19th Century: how to make the country modern. By Joseph Kahn. 	Other culture and entertainment 	HEMINGWAY-LETTERS (Undated) _ Ernest Hemingway was a prolific letter writer _by one estimate, he left behind 8,000 to 10,000 letters, most of which have never been published. He didn't keep copies of his own letters, although he held on to his correspondence with his fellow writers, his editors, his mother and his wives. He also kept letters that he never sent, in some cases apparently because the language was too strong, even for Hemingway. For the first time, this staggering correspondence, scattered around some two dozen libraries and universities, will be sorted, edited and revealed by an international team of scholars, with an eye to the publication of a multi-volume edition of the complete letters of Hemingway. By Celestine Bohlen. 	TV-WOODY-ALLEN-REVIEW (Undated) _ Saturday on TCM, ``Woody Allen: A Life in Film.'' Reviewed by Neil Genzlinger. 	For information and repeats call the News Service at (888) 346-9867 or (212) 556-1927. And be sure to look for other entertainment stories from our partners: The Boston Globe, Cox News Service, Hearst Newspapers, The Houston Chronicle, The Arizona Republic, Kansas City Star, Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Los Angeles Daily News, San Francisco Chronicle and Seattle Post-Intelligencer. 	(Editors: All clients receive all budgets, but only full-service clients receive all stories. Please check your level of service to determine which stories you will receive.) 
