Bryan Murray went home to Florida two weeks ago with rest and relaxation on his mind. ``My intent was to get away for a while and lay low,'' said Murray, who had just completed a trying first season as coach of the Anaheim Mighty Ducks ``But that changed rather quickly.'' Despite their promising second-half improvements, the Mighty Ducks on Thursday promoted Murray to senior vice president and general manager, a job vacated when the club fired Pierre Gauthier two weeks ago. By leaving the bench area, Murray, who has served as both a coach and general manager during his lengthy career, will leave the team with a search for its sixth coach in its 10-year history. ``We are very fortunate to have someone such as Bryan who has had great success and experience in the National Hockey League,'' said Paul Pressler, chairman of Disney's Parks and Resort division and the man who promoted Murray. ``We are extremely confident his leadership skills and winning background will help us achieve our ultimate goal of a Stanley Cup championship.'' Pressler and Murray spoke several times about Murray moving upstairs. Murray said he was hesitant about it at first, but, ``it didn't take a lot of persuasion at the end.'' Murray, who was named Anaheim's coach on May 25, 2001, now will focus his attention on a new bench leader and improving a hockey team that struggled to score last season. Murray had previous GM successes in Florida and Detroit. The Panthers reached the Stanley Cup Finals under his direction in 1996. Murray later named his brother, Terry, head coach of the Panthers before both were fired in December 2001. When asked if his brother was on his list of coaching candidates, Bryan Murray replied: ``You think he'd want to work for me again? I would say at this time it is very difficult for me to consider, with all that happened in Florida.'' Murray wouldn't talk about whom the Ducks' next coach might be, but he added that he would like to have the new staff in place before the free-agent draft in July. ``I want someone who can come in here and teach and has respect doing so,'' Murray said. ``I want a coach who is a happy coach, a positive coach, and one who has proven he can work with players.'' While finding a coach is a top priority, so is upgrading a hockey team via free agency or quicker development of skilled players already in the organization. ``This team is not a contender right now, but I also don't think we are 25 points away from a playoff spot,'' Murray said. ``We were competitive in the second half and if you're going to have success year-round, you have to score more goals, and maybe a lot more goals, than we did (last season).'' Murray made it a point to say Pressler and Disney are serious about turning the struggling Ducks into contenders as soon as possible. And the team probably will discuss unrestricted free agents such as Bill Guerin of Boston, Bobby Holik of New Jersey and former Duck and current San Jose Shark Teemu Selanne. ``The core here is young and it continues to grow,'' Murray said. ``We need to surround them with more scoring and more size in a couple of spots. I don't think it will take an awful lot for us to be more competitive.'' Murray said he plans to use his players -- mainly captain Paul Kariya -- as recruiters in luring free agents to Anaheim, which finished 29-42-8-3 and 25 points away from a playoff spot in the Western Conference. ``No question, the big names want to go to contenders,'' Murray said. ``So, there is a selling job involved here. We know it's a big job and the players can help us in recruiting. I know Paul is a pretty good guy and a good player. Hopefully, he can be a good recruiter.'' 
