Mike Cameron, his bat for two weeks caught in a chill suitable for the arctic tundra, homered his first four times to the plate last night, leading Seattle to a 15-4 victory over the Chicago White Sox at Comiskey Park. Only 12 other players have hit four homers in a game. The Mariners knew they were partaking of history. That being the case, they stroked the moment for all it was worth. Cameron was stopped before his entry into the Seattle clubhouse at game's end. He was dressed in a hastily made crown and cape put together by teammate Mark McLemore. The crown read ``King Cam 5-2-02.'' As Cameron was led into the clubhouse, he had to walk through a human tunnel composed of laughing, cheering teammates, many of whom doused him with beer. Sitting on the chair in front of his locker were four otherwise pristine baseballs with the numerals 1, 2, 3 and 4 on them in heavy black ink. ``I had to walk the line, like I was marrying the princess, the king's daughter,'' Cameron said, his grin as wide as the final score as he described the raucous ceremony. ``The guys made me feel like the king of the hill.'' As indeed he was. For make no mistake -- Cameron entered a strange and vastly unpopulated land with his homers. He hammered the baseball all night long. He homered twice in the first inning, hit another in the third and added a fourth in the fifth inning. He had two chances to become the first player ever to hit five homers in a game. But he was hit by a Mike Porzio pitch in the seventh. And he lined out to the right-field warning track in the ninth. ``Hitting two homers is good, and (hitting) three homers is a lot different than two,'' second baseman Bret Boone said. Boone homered twice in the first inning, a feat worthy of headlines on any day but this one. ``When you talk about hitting four, that's a whole different level. Not too many guys ever get there.'' Ones who do are named Lou Gehrig. Or Willie Mays. Or Mike Schmidt. The creme de la creme. And now you can add Mike Cameron to the list. This is the same Cameron who came into the game with four hits in his past 32 at-bats, who had driven in one run since April 16. He was looking for answers. He found them in a session of extra batting practice Wednesday, although the results weren't evident until last night. It didn't take long for Cameron -- and Boone -- to show the world their wares last night. Seattle scored 10 runs in the first inning, Boone and Cameron each contributing two homers. Only 39 players had ever homered twice in an inning, and no teammates had ever done it in the same inning. It was, simply, the most overpowering first inning in the 26-year history of Mariners baseball. Jon Rauch starting the game by hitting Ichiro with the first pitch. Boone, batting second in the order for the first time all season, hit the next pitch for a two-run homer into the right-field bullpen. Four pitches later, Cameron unloaded with his first bomb, a 405-foot shot to dead center. After that, Rauch never had a chance. Carlos Guillen and Ben Davis singled home one run each. The first out didn't happen until Jeff Cirillo, the ninth hitter in the lineup, lofted a bases-loaded sacrifice fly. Ichiro made the second out with a grounder, driving in another run. And then it was time for Fireworks, Part II. Boone, facing a new pitcher in Jim Parque, chose an old tactic. He again jumped on the first pitch. Again it landed in the right-field bullpen. Cameron was more selective. He worked the count full against Parque before hitting a nearly identical homer to his first, to dead center. This one was measured at 425 feet. Cameron's second shot ended the scoring in the inning, Seattle having used eight hits, half of them homers, to grab a 10-0 lead before the White Sox brought their first hitter to the plate. Two innings later, Cameron was up with two outs and no one on base. Again Parque was the pitcher. Again Parque was the victim. This time, at least, the lefty made Cameron changed direction. Homer No. 3 came to a clattering halt above the left field bullpen. The lead stood at 12-1 when Cameron came up for his fourth at-bat. Parque was still around, up to his old tricks. Cameron pulled a bullet out of the park, but foul. It could have been his best chance to get a fourth homer. It wasn't. Two pitches later, Cameron turned around another Parque serve, depositing it with its relatives in dead center. Cameron never got a chance to hit in the seventh inning, getting hit by a 1-1 pitch from Porzio. There was a chance that he wouldn't get to hit again in the ninth. He was the fourth batter scheduled to hit, meaning at least one man had to reach base safely for Cameron to get a shot. No problem. Cirillo led off with a home run. Cameron's last chance was secure. When he came up, it was with two on and no one out. Porzio missed with his first three pitches. With Cameron, a Comiskey Park favorite from his time with the White Sox in the 1990s, having a chance for history, the crowd was on his feet, rooting for the opposition. White Sox owner Jerry Reinsdorf would come up to Cameron later to tell him, ``I hate to root against my own team, but I was rooting for you to get that fifth one.'' Even at 3-0 there was no chance Cameron was going to take a walk. He was going to take a whack. ``I was going to take my hacks, no matter what,'' Cameron said. He jumped on a 3-1 pitch that would have been ball four, fouling it off. Then Porzio threw another potential ball four. Cameron took his best hack. The ball came off his bat like a rock out of a slingshot, but the trajectory was too low. Right fielder Jeff Liefer tracked down the ball a step or so in front of the right-field wall. ``You've got to get the ball up to get it out of here to right field,'' Cameron said. ``I hit it good, but I knew it wasn't going out.'' No matter. Cameron was going down in the record books anyway, by himself and with Boone. That's pretty near perfect. 
