They had the warm-up band and the banners, the tricolor flags and choruses of ``La Marseillaise,'' offering an impromptu counterpoint to a rock band's high-decibel rendering of ``I Will Survive.'' But, really, no one at President Jacques Chirac's last public appearance before France's election on Sunday doubted that he would survive, short of a shift akin to the French Revolution. Thousands of conservative party faithful came from across France, from the Atlantic to the Alps, to a huge hangar-like exhibition hall on the outskirts of Paris on Thursday night to repledge their troth to Chirac. Their very presence was an acknowledgment of the newly elevated stakes in the election after a first-round vote surprised France and the rest of Europe by propelling the extreme-right politician, Jean Marie Le Pen, into Sunday's runoff. ``We are talking about France, even a small country, remaining a great nation,'' said Bertrand Petitbois, a 34-year-old metal worker from La Rochelle in southwest France who took a six-hour bus ride to be here. ``We are here to reaffirm the values that Le Pen has endangered.'' As he took to the podium, speaking just as Le Pen addressed his followers in the southern stronghold of Marseille, Chirac took up the theme. But not before he had pressed the loyal flesh, kissed a child and, in the bobbing, both-cheek Gallic way, quite a few women, too. He had a special in-the-loop word for the massed ranks of his party's dignitaries. His handshake and shoulder-slapping seemed as irrepressible as Bill Clinton's. ``We want to have a France that finds again its desire to be a great nation,'' Chirac said, reaching back into history to evoke ``the great nation of 1789, the Free France of de Gaulle.'' What he sought, he said, was ``this eternal France which, in adversity, finds its unity and the path to its destiny.'' ``Extremism is not the answer,'' he said. ``Extremism degrades and besmirches the image and even the honor of France.'' He urged inclusiveness toward immigrants, where Le Pen urges expulsion, and he embraced European integration, where Le Pen rejects it. But he also took issue with the record of Prime Minister Lionel Jospin, a Socialist, who was knocked out of the race by Le Pen's surprisingly strong showing in the first-round vote on April 21. Chirac promised improved education, policing and health care, less bureaucracy and taxes lowered by a third. ``Today the nation is troubled, troubled in its security,'' he said, acknowledging the fears that many people say led them to vote for Le Pen. ``Never in history has a nation been able to build great things while living in fear.'' But for all that, the vote is a tricky moment for Chirac, a charismatic veteran of French politics. Variously described as chameleon-like or flexible or prone to reversal, he now finds himself tainted by a whiff of corruption from his days as mayor of Paris and caught in a bizarre twist of political arithmetic. If he wins on Sunday by too high a margin, his presidency will be seen as dependent in part on votes cast by his Socialist foes, who have urged their supporters to vote for Chirac in solidarity against the extreme views of Le Pen. But if the margin is much narrower than the 80-20 split opinion surveys are forecasting, then he will be seen to have failed to contain the extreme-right-wing onslaught. Pierre Rosanvallon, a leading academic and political analyst, said Chirac ``is in a curious position because if he wins by too wide a margin, he can't be a normal president with 80 percent of the votes,'' many cast by his opponents. ``But if it's less than 70 percent it's a problem for French democracy,'' he added, in that Le Pen's extremism would be seen to be taking hold. Sitting on a white plastic chair in the vast exhibition hall, Jacqueline Darley, a retired bookkeeper from Paris, agreed. She said ``it would be really annoying'' if the hundreds of thousands of labor unionists and Socialists who turned May Day rallies across France into a huge anti-Le Pen protest also got to thinking that Chirac owed them for his re-election. ``They'll start making demands from him,'' she said. ``It'll be very difficult for him.'' It is perhaps to postpone such awkward calculations that since the first-round vote, Chirac has sought to cast himself as being aloof from such trivial issues at a moment when the health of France's democracy seems imperiled. In a television interview, broadcast live to the exhibition hall before the rally on Thursday night, he said he was ``a president who is president for all the French people without exception.'' Indeed, the political calculations also depend on how Chirac positions his party for parliamentary elections in June that will determine whether France is again ruled by a so-called cohabitation between a conservative president and a Socialist prime minister. ``His strategy at the moment is a soft strategy, a no-strategy,'' said Rosanvallon, the academic. ``His main problem is what he's able to do after Sunday.'' 
