On a blustery Sunday afternoon in March, in the basement of St. Philip's Church in Harlem, the tenor saxophonist Houston Person prepared to step onto the makeshift bandstand. Before him, the room was packed, 300 strong. Probation officers and data processors, bus dispatchers and guidance counselors, they squeezed onto folding chairs at card tables, each covered with pink cloth and set with twin plastic dishes of party mix. One group carried in its own platters of corned-beef sandwiches and deviled eggs and, this being a house of God, carbonated apple cider to simulate champagne. So familial was the mood that the MC introduced Person as ``my son from a previous marriage.'' For 25 songs over the next three hours, Person and his quartet rendered the daytime nocturnal. He essayed standards from Ellington and Jobim, pushed the tempo into hard bop, brought calypso syncopation to ``I'll Remember April.'' And when someone flipped off the fluorescent lights and Person played the opening bars of ``Since I Fell For You,'' women clasped their hands, swayed their heads and softly sang along. There was only one familiar element missing. Etta Jones, the vocalist who had worked with Person for more than 30 years in perhaps the most productive such partnership in jazz history, had died five months earlier. On the wall behind Person's quartet, next to some fabric cutouts of half-notes and treble clefs, hung photographs of Jones and Person in midsong, she in satin and pearls, he biting down on his horn. At one point late in the first set, Person's drummer, Chip White, punctuated a solo by shouting out, ``Etta Jones!'' The performance _ sold out, fervently appreciated and all but invisible outside Harlem _ typified the contradictions of Person's career. At the age of 67, with 100 recordings as a leader and thousands of club dates behind him, he has at last begun to reap the benefits of a career built and sustained among the black middle class. His most recent CD with his quartet, ``Blue Velvet,'' led all jazz recordings in radio airplay for several weeks in February, according to the Yellow Dog Jazz Report, a tracking service. A duo session with the bassist Ron Carter, ``Dialogues,'' was just released in April. On May 7, Person opens a six-night stand at the Jazz Standard in Manhattan, the sort of front-rank venue that eluded him for many years. But these successes arrived too late for his most intimate and longstanding collaborator. There and not there, absent yet somehow present, Jones remains Person's phantom limb. ``I've gotten my recognition,'' Person said in an interview at his home in Croton Falls, N.Y., 50 miles northeast of Manhattan. ``But I designed the group so that Etta and I shared half and half, and it hurts me that she didn't get what she deserved. She was out there for so many years. I would've liked to have seen her get a Grammy, get a write-up in the jazz periodicals. To see people picking on Diana Krall or Jane Monheit and saying they're not as great a singer as Etta Jones _ well, why didn't folks say that when she was alive?'' After Jones died of breast and lung cancer in October at the age of 72, obituaries and appreciations appeared in newspapers from London to New Zealand and even in such unlikely settings as Legal Times. Yet a search of the database Nexis shows that those posthumous articles account for almost a third of the coverage she received from major newspapers in the last 20 years. Two albums featuring Jones and produced by Person _ ``Save Your Love for Me'' in 1981 and ``My Buddy: The Songs of Buddy Johnson'' in 1998 _ received Grammy nominations, but neither won the award. ``What they did was classic,'' Dan Morgenstern, the director of the Institute of Jazz Studies at Rutgers University in Newark, N.J., said of Jones and Person. ``For a tenor sax and a lady singer, it was really one of a kind. Billie Holiday and Lester Young come to mind, but they worked together only episodically. Houston and Etta worked together so long and so consistently, they established a unique rapport. Every phrase, every gesture, they were attuned to each other.'' In a fitting coincidence, both hailed from the Piedmont plateau of South Carolina _ she born in Aiken in 1928, he in Florence in 1934. While Jones soon moved with her family to Harlem, being hired at age 15 by the bandleader Buddy Johnson after appearing in the Apollo Theater's amateur night, Person grew under the musical tutelage of his upwardly mobile parents. His father, an agricultural extension agent, bought Person his first tenor at 16; his mother, an English teacher, required him to listen to the Metropolitan Opera's Saturday-afternoon radio broadcasts. Person acquired gospel music and rhythm-and-blues by osmosis. His musical education continued through two venerable vehicles for African-American progress, the black colleges that arose in the postbellum South and the U.S. military. At South Carolina State, Person joined a marching band directed by a jazz saxophonist named Aaron Henry. Based in Germany with the Air Force, Person spent his weekends performing in a Heidelberg nightclub with fellow soldier-musicians like Eddie Harris, Cedar Walton and Don Ellis. Discharged as a corporal in 1958, Person entered the classically oriented Hartt School of Music in Hartford, Conn., where his classmates included Dionne Warwick. The myriad influences on Person ultimately informed his recordings, which have found him accompanying a Newark gospel choir, the avant-garde pianist Ran Blake and a Brazilian-tinged sextet headed by the guitarist Bill Frisell. Person's rhythm-and-blues recordings from the late 1960s have recently been reissued under the title ``Trust in Me'' as part of a ``Legends of Acid Jazz'' series. Carter, the bassist, said of Person, ``He knows the whole realm of jazz history.'' Still, Person's signature sound is the blues-and-ballads combination he refined with Jones. First booked together by a Washington club owner in 1968, Person and Jones slid into their permanent partnership more by coincidence than grand plan. ``If I'd get a gig, I'd ask her, `You want to go?' and she'd say, `Yeah,''' Person recalled. ``And it went along like that for a while. Then one day she heard from someone else that I had a gig and she said: `You're not taking me along? Why don't you just take me on all the gigs?''' Person had little difficulty consenting. Musically, Jones was steeped in standards, especially the songs of Sammy Cahn, while Person had mastered such jazz composers as Benny Golson and Tadd Dameron. She expressed vulnerability; he, resilience. She was that rare singer willing to share the spotlight; he was that rare musician eager to learn the business. For most of the pair's 33 years together, Person produced their recordings, booked their club dates, built their mailing list. ``Growing up under segregation will do that,'' he said of his self-reliance. ``In a backwards kind of way, it was beneficial, because it taught you that nothing was ever going to he handed to you.'' For much of their career together, Jones and Person played upward of 200 dates a year, but they worked a circuit ignored by or unknown to much of the jazz intelligentsia. Clubs like the New Apartment Lounge in Chicago or Trumpets in Montclair, N.J., they developed a passionate following among black audiences in black neighborhoods. Listeners routinely hailed them as Aunt Etta and Uncle Person, if not mistakenly assuming them to be husband and wife. ``We took our case to the people,'' Person said. ``There's this idea that black people don't listen to jazz. Well, black people love jazz. It's a creation of black people. They love it when it has those elements of blues, swing, dancing. It's a music that's supposed to be a relief, that's supposed to be fun. You shouldn't pay $25 or $30 just to watch someone onstage have all the fun.'' Fellow musicians heard in Jones and Person not only pleasure but also consummate craft. ``When you have a horn player and singer, it's a conversation,'' said Daryl Sherman, a pianist and vocalist who has occasionally performed with Person. ``And they knew each other so well and knew their material so well that they could finish each other's sentences. ``Etta sang in short bursts, more staccato than legato, and Houston would always know where to fill or not. He was very reactive and sensitive to the mood and the aesthetic of a song. He matched her without burying her.'' Carter, the bassist, said of Person's struggle for critical and commercial recognition, ``If Houton Person is under the radar, then the radar is jammed.'' By the time Person and Jones went into the studio last July to record their final CD, she had been battling cancer for nearly a decade, enduring a mastectomy and chemotherapy. This last session was to be devoted to the songs of Billie Holiday, Jones' first great influence even if she always reminded Person more of Dinah Washington. ``She sang so well that day,'' Person recalled. ``The band was on, everybody was upbeat. We went for soul food afterward, pigged out. See, music was the energy. Music was the therapy.'' ``Etta Jones Sings Lady Day'' was released on the day Jones died. Her manager until the end, Person helped arrange the funeral. It was held at a church in Mount Vernon, N.Y., where the pair had often played, and included tributes by musicians like Melba Liston. Since then, Person's musical life has thrived, even as a hole remains somewhere near the center of it. For several months, he could not bear to play the ballads Jones most loved from him _ ``Skylark,'' ``Danny Boy,'' ``A Stranger on the Shore.'' And he has no immediate plans to work with a vocalist. ``I'm not saying I won't ever do it,'' he said. ``I just don't have an appetite for it now. Out of respect to Etta. That's my testament to her memory.'' 
