Dennis Conner hopes that ``7'' is his lucky number. Stars &AMP; Stripes, the Team Dennis Conner/New York Yacht Club's challenge boat for the 2003 America's Cup, will wear double 7s on its hull as it competes for the right to challenge the Royal New Zealand Yacht Squadron for yachting's most prestigious prize. The challenger races begin in October in the waters off Auckland, New Zealand, with the America's Cup races taking place Feb. 15 through March 6, 2003. Ken McAlpine, official measurer for the America's Cup, recently issued hull number 77 to the newest Stars &AMP; Stripes. As official measurer, it is McAlpine's job to inspect and measure the hull mold to ensure it meets International America's Cup Class (IACC) rules and standards. Only then is an IACC hull number issued. USA-77 is under construction at Rhode Island's New England Boatworks. Completion is expected in early summer, when the IACC boat will be shipped to the team's training center in Long Beach, Calif. While awaiting delivery of USA-77, the team trains with USA-66 _ the old Stars &AMP; Stripes _ and trial horse USA-54. ``I have a good feeling about both of our AC boats,'' Conner said. ``But I know better than anyone that the competition is tougher than ever and we're going to have to continue our intense training schedule to be on an even playing field with the other teams.'' America's Cup 2000 challenger Prada, meanwhile, is back at its Italian home base after spending the entire Southern Hemisphere summer training in the Hauraki Gulf. The Prada crew has been training for nearly two years, since just after its unsuccessful challenge for the America's Cup ended in March 2000. Prada's 2003 boat Luna Rossa (ITA74), built by the Grosseto boatyard, will be launched later this month. In other Cup news: _ In mid-April, Great Britain launched Wight Lightning, the country's first British-built IACC yacht. GBR-70 was christened by Princess Anne and represents Great Britain's first America's Cup entry since the new IACC specification replaced the old 12-meter design. Most of the British crew returned home from Auckland in late March to help prepare the new boat for the trip back to Auckland this month. Also, the British challenge syndicate will build a second boat for the two-boat training now considered the norm for a serious Cup challenge. _ The Illbruck Challenge, sponsored by the Dusseldorf Yacht Club, has notified the challenger and defender committees that it is formally withdrawing as a challenger for the America's Cup. Challenge chairman Michael Illbruck cited the fledgling syndicate's inability to find a corporate partner. ``It's disappointing that we can't keep the team together for the next America's Cup,'' he said. ``But we hope to find a long-term solution to challenge again sometime in the future.'' The nine remaining challenge syndicates are Switzerland's Alinghi, training in Auckland; Great Britain's GBR Challenge, training in Cowes but returning to Auckland later this month; France's La Defi Areva, currently training in Lorient but moving to Auckland in August; Italy's Mascalzone Latino, training in Portaferraio but returning to Auckland in early August; Sweden's Victory Challenge, training in Auckland; and the 2000 challenger of record Prada, training in Punta Ala. The United States has three syndicates in contention: Oracle Racing, and One World, both training in Auckland; and Team Dennis Conner/New York Yacht Club, currently training in Long Beach but moving to Auckland in August. _ The defending Royal New Zealand Yacht Squadron recently announced the schedule for the challenger series and the America's Cup contest. The schedule for the challenges, on a triangular course in the Hauraki Gulf off Auckland, is: Round Robin 1 -- Oct. 1-14. Round Robin 2 -- Oct. 22-Nov. 4. Semifinal 1 -- Nov. 12-Dec. 1. Semifinal 2 -- Dec. 9-29. Challenger finals -- Jan. 11-24, 2003. America's Cup -- Feb. 15-March 6, 2003. Shannon Donnelly writes for the Palm Beach Daily News. Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
