Driving at a snail's pace, he scans the side streets around a Kroger store near downtown Houston for carts. Ask him the weirdest thing he's ever seen done to one, he answers without missing a beat: ``Barbecue pit. I've seen them cooking in them with meat.'' Rose has pretty much seen it all in eight years working for Cart Smart, a Houston-based company that rounds up the buggies some shoppers ``borrow'' from supermarkets, department stores and pharmacies. Many see abandoned shopping carts as ``metal graffiti,'' a neighborhood eyesore. The practice has created wheels of fortune for retrieval services and the makers of anti-theft devices. Replacing missing carts costs U.S. retailers more than $100 million a year, according to trade associations. New carts run from $80 to more than $200. So much money can be made from the wheeled baskets, there are even shopping cart theft rings, said Holly Montalbano, a spokeswoman for Houston area HEB grocery stores. Last year, San Antonio-based HEB spent $1.6 million to replace carts taken from its stores. Industry insiders acknowledge that cart replacement costs are passed on to the consumer. Shopper Floie Meehleder wasn't surprised. ``We pay for everything,'' she said after buying groceries at a Kroger. Supermarket industry watcher Martin Sloane, whose syndicated column runs in the Houston Chronicle, has heard of carts being turned into planters and barbecue pits. ``They use them for a lot of mundane things like taking laundry to a laundry room,'' he said. The cart loss problem is so pervasive nationwide, and the profit margins so narrow in the competitive supermarket business, that hiring companies such as Cart Smart has become the norm. Yet, most people don't even know these cart collection services exist. Sloane said abandoned carts are a hot button issue for neighborhoods as well as grocers. He cited a Minnesota property manager who was jailed after holding more than 150 abandoned carts hostage. When asked why, the man said he just wanted the supermarket to do something about carts that littered the neighborhood. Cart collectors say there is theft, and there is borrowing. When a shopper borrows a cart, it could be retrieved and the supermarket will not be out of $100 worth of inventory. Stolen means the carts drop off the radar screen. About three years ago, a stash of missing carts was uncovered at the Port of Houston, an industry insider said. At least twice a year, she said, theft rings hit local supermarket chains with large inventories of carts. They come in the middle of the night and, in some cases, take dozens to a hundred buggies. ``That's a problem we would like to see solved as much as the stores would,'' Cart Smart owner Dan Boobar said. For the most part, local losses are more pedestrian. Ingenious adolescents turn the carts into basketball goals. Unscrupulous washateria owners put them into service as laundry baskets. Some newspaper vendors temporarily ``borrow'' them to transport their papers. Home improvement types use them as inexpensive wheelbarrows. Rose has seen mechanics take engines out of cars and store them in carts. He doesn't mind the grease as much as the used diapers he occasionally finds in abandoned buggies. Around Houston, it's not unusual to see people use the carts to carry their groceries home or to a bus stop. The homeless use them to push their earthly possessions or hold garbage bags full of aluminum cans they plan to sell to recycling companies. Rose often sees the ``recyclers'' on his retrieval route. He does eight to 10 stores a day, with the worst part of the job being the weather. The locking wheel systems that many urban supermarkets have installed in the past three years have taken a toll on cart retrievers. But business is still good. ``We collect 50 to 100 carts a day,'' Boobar said. ``It used to be significantly higher before the locking wheel-system carts.'' Cart repairman Donald Crisp takes his hat off to Boobar, because he wouldn't do it. ``Retrieval is too dangerous,'' Crisp said. Boobar expects his drivers to use common sense, but he also has some safety rules: Don't go on private property for a cart unless you have the homeowner's approval. And don't take a cart someone is using. ``We make every effort to get a cart, but we don't put ourselves in a potentially dangerous situation,'' Boobar said. Two cart collection companies do retrieval in the Houston area. Their work takes them into apartment complexes, down tree-lined streets and _ sometimes _ down a bayou bank. A growing number of states and municipalities are taking supermarkets to task for abandoned carts, fining them when they fail to pick up their property when notified. Houston hasn't gone that way yet, but Boobar said the city does fine supermarkets for carts that end up in a bayou and create a safety hazard. He wishes those who borrow the carts would push them back to the supermarkets. ``Of course, I would be out of business then,'' Boobar said. XXX END OF STORY 
