Fans of Woody Allen have learned in recent years to lower their expectations from this carelessly prolific and intermittently funny writer-director. His latest, ``Hollywood Ending,'' is another dose of Woodman Lite, allegedly a tribute to the blind chaos of filmmaking, but without much insight on the industry or much worth laughing about. You know an Allen film is in trouble when its best gags are broad physical comedy, rather than the cerebral, verbal kind the built his career on. As with ``Small Time Crooks'' and ``Curse of the Jade Scorpion,'' Allen tries to stretch a thin comic notion into a feature-length movie, and the results are again negligible. Is this really the same man who gave us ``Annie Hall,'' ``Hannah and Her Sisters'' and ``Crimes and Misdemeanors?'' Woody watchers have long sought autobiographical clues in his movies, and his choice to play a two-time Oscar-winning film director whose work has slipped drastically in recent years is unlikely to slow that search. Here, he is Val Waxman, once on top but currently reduced to shooting deodorant commercials in the icy wilds of Canada. In one of ``Hollywood Ending's'' many improbabilities, Val's ex-wife Ellie (a subdued Tea Leoni), argues to her new husband, Hal (Treat Williams), the top executive at Galaxie Pictures, that Val should direct a $60 million New York-based melodrama for the studio. Against Hal's better judgment and the skepticism of his well-tanned yes-man Ed (former Palm Beacher George Hamilton), Val is given the job. But just before the cameras roll, Val develops psychosomatic blindness, losing his sight and probably his career. Fortunately, as one character observes, ``he can do this material with his eyes closed.'' The same could be said of Allen, unfortunately. Val's agent Al (director Mark Rydell) is determined to help him get through the shoot, and a lot of ``Hollywood Ending'' concerns efforts to hide Val's condition from his cast and crew. Since Val had insisted on using a non-English-speaking Chinese cameraman, he confides in the on-set translator and enlists his help in stumbling through. That works for a while, but soon Ellie has to be brought into the ruse, too. It turns out that Ellie still pines for Val, another typical Allen plot device. It is not enough that Leoni is required to act gaga over a man twice her age, mind you. Val is also adored by the even younger Debra Messing (''Will &AMP; Grace'') as his untalented actress girlfriend and by the even younger, pneumatic kewpie doll Tiffani Thiessen as the star of the movie-within-the-movie, ``The City That Never Sleeps.'' Never let it be said that Allen does not take full advantage of his position as screenwriter. Still, the Allen wit is rarely evident in ``Hollywood Ending,'' with a great deal of sloppy, repetitive dialogue that drags out scenes whose only purpose is to make a simple point. As a result, the film feels much longer than it needs to be. The biggest laughs come as blind Val falls off a parapet and crashes into furniture. Ignore the fact that he seems completely unable to pretend to be sighted or to figure out that a person he is conversing with is probably in the direction from where a voice is coming. Never doubt that the movie concludes on an upbeat note, as the title suggests. Perhaps Allen is saying that even the work of a blind director will be accepted somewhere. Maybe so, but it seems likely that all but the most die-hard Allen addicts will be able to see through and shrug at this anemic comedy. It would be comforting to think that Allen still has a few first-rate films in him, but that does not look like the direction in which he is heading. Hap Erstein writes for The Palm Beach Post. E-mail: haperstein(at)pbpost.com HOLLYWOOD ENDING Grade: D+ Rated PG-13: Sexual situations, drug use. Running time: 1 hour, 52 minutes. The verdict: Allen as a film director who develops temporary blindness is strictly Woody Lite, with little vision and fewer laughs. Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
