``Actors thrive on adoration,'' someone says about the opera performer Lin Chung (Chao-te Yin) in ``Fleeing by Night.'' But that doesn't seem to be the case for this stricken stage cynosure; he's more the crying-on-the-inside type _ deep inside. This backstage look at his world, set in 1930s China, could be called ``Peking Soap Opera Blues.'' It is a melodrama that gives almost every character an opportunity to choke back thwarted desires quietly in a corner, the shadows not quite masking the pained eyes. The movie is also a mellow drama. The directors, Li-kong Hsu and Chi Yin, linger over the muted heartbreak as characters wait for couplings that often remain slightly out of reach. This lingering may feel more like malingering to some viewers, although the tone can move from a murmur to a shout. And the addition and constant shuffling of characters is a little confusing; so many people, who are not particularly well-defined when we meet them, step in and out of the story. But ``Fleeing the Night'' is the kind of old-fashioned, grown-up weepie in which the hearts of men and women are cracked, and the shards flutter through the story. Its directness is the movie equivalent of hot, fresh popcorn. The intricate choreography of the relationships is elegantly handled, and the directors don't stint on the eloquent torture that can make soap opera so delectable. This is a tale that features as many entrances and exits as a Puccini performance; the torrent of unrequited longing and suffering plays just like an opera. The swelling of somberly enunciated hunger for contact revolves around Lin Chung, but the real heart of the story is the naive Wei Ing'er (Rene Liu). She's thrilled that a Beijing opera troupe is taking up temporary residence in her little town. Her mother (Ah-leh Gua) doesn't think much of the performers. ``Don't they have any etiquette?'' she fumes, possibly because they are drawing attention away from her. (It is she who makes the remark about actors thriving on adoration.) Spying Lin from a distance, Ing'er is taken with him because he pours himself so intently into his roles. He even takes the name of the character he plays: Lin Chung isn't his real name but that of the heroic figure in the opera ``Lin Chung Flees by Night,'' in which he sings lines like ``I feel my heart is on fire.'' Actually, it is, despite this bloated declamation. Stern-faced and withdrawn, he seems to exist as a person only when he's onstage. But his reticence doesn't stop the shy Ing'er from falling for him because of the bounding energy he brings to his role. Lin is magnetic because his shift from impassivity to passion has power: he is emotionally shut down until he gives his all onstage. Everyone else expresses in casual conversation what he says only while acting. His theatrical pluck is mirrored in the approach that the film takes to its story. Things are further complicated when Ing'er's fiance, Hsu Shao-dung (Lei Huang), returns from America. (It doesn't help that it's tough to tell initially whether they are especially close relatives or betrothed.) Shao-dung, whose longish hair falls around his temples in a tortured aesthete coiffure, is a little too forward for Ing'er's mother; she's concerned that the couple will soon be holding hands in public. But this really isn't a worry: Shao-dung is attracted to Lin, as is the thuggish Huang (Li-jen Tai). Huang, who buys rows of seats for each show, isn't nearly as ambivalent about his sexuality as the conflicted Shao-dung is. ``Fleeing by Night'' is so much about roads not taken that the story is told in flashbacks, with voice-overs reading the letters that Shao-dung and Ing'er have written each other. The dialogue is as florid as some of their notes: when Shao-dung first hears Lin onstage, he says, ``I am extremely sensitive to sounds'' to explain his trembling. Fortunately, the performances and direction aren't as damp as the subtitles for the heart-wrenching patter, which have a formalized stiffness. The words contradict the richness of the filmmaking and the acting. Ing'er's gentleness seems intuitive and so natural that it is easy to believe that she lives in her bubble of ignorance because she is too guileless to notice the stolen looks exchanged around her. ``Fleeing by Night'' has a lovely tremble, too _ it's a square, sentimental drama that satisfies, as comfort food often can. PRODUCTION NOTES: `FLEEING BY NIGHT' Directed by Li-kong Hsu and Chi Yin; written (in Mandarin, with English subtitles) by Hui-ling Wang and Ming-xia Wang; director of photography, Cheng-hui Tsai; edited by Po-wen Chen; music by Chris Babida; art director, Jun Sung; produced by Hsu and Shi-hao Chang; released by Strand Releasing. Running time: 123 minutes. WITH: Rene Liu (Wei Ing'er), Lei Huang (Hsu Shao-dung), Chao-te Yin (Lin Chung), Li-jen Tai (Huang Zilei) and Ah-leh Gua (Mother). This film is not rated. 
