Barry Bonds can't read palms or tell fortunes, but he may want to give either one a shot when he's done humiliating major-league pitchers. Not long ago, the single-season home-run king said the player with the best chance at breaking Hank Aaron's career home-run record wasn't himself, but Alex Rodriguez. ``It's extremely flattering,'' Rodriguez said. ``But I'm in step two or three of a 1,000-step bridge.'' Although he trails Aaron's record by a mere 505 home runs, Rodriguez moved into yet another Hall of Fame suburb in the Rangers' 10-3 victory against the Blue Jays before the smallest crowd in the history of the SkyDome. With a home run Tuesday, the 26-year-old Rodriguez became the second-youngest player in major-league history to hit 250 home runs. The youngest? Jimmie Foxx, who finished with 534 home runs. ``It will all come down to health,'' Rangers manager Jerry Narron said. ``As good as he is, he's going to get better. If anyone has a shot at it, he's got as good as any.'' Behind Kenny Rogers's sixth consecutive strong start, a revamped lineup scattered milestones and season highs as the Rangers closed out their third consecutive losing April by winning five of their past six games. Hours before the game began, but not without a great deal of thought, Narron changed his lineup, moving Rodriguez into the cleanup spot, Rusty Greer into the three hole and Rafael Palmeiro into the fifth spot. The immediate result was a season-high four home runs, including Rodriguez's American League-leading ninth, Hank Blalock's career first, and Palmeiro's 453rd, moving him past Carl Yastrzemski for 25th on the all-time list. Bill Haselman also finished a triple shy of the cycle, and Mike Young collected three hits and scored twice. ``I like it,'' said Palmeiro, whose home run came in the second inning for a 1-0 lead. ``It makes it difficult for other managers to use their bullpen, and it puts Rusty more in a position to drive in runs.'' One inning after Palmeiro's home run, Rodriguez hit a two-run, opposite-field home run to increase a lead that was never seriously threatened. The lead wasn't threatened because for the fifth time in six starts, Rogers effectively shut the other team down. With Tuesday's victory, Rogers improved to 3-0 with a 2.03 earned-run average. Over his past four starts covering 29 innings, Rogers has allowed five runs. ``I thought my stuff \RTuesday\S was mediocre, at best,'' Rogers said. ``But it helps when you score early. You can relax a little. If we keep pitching like this, you know the offense is going to put up the numbers.'' It did Tuesday. And by the time Blalock connected for his first major-league home run in the ninth inning to put the finishing touches on the game, the vast majority of the 12,571 in attendance left to watch the end of the greatly anticipated (in Toronto) Maple Leafs-Islanders playoff game. / nn 
