There's something about the Kentucky Derby. To the great sportswriter David Alexander, the rapture and hysteria it elicited was worthy of its own branch of psychiatry. To William Faulkner, the sheer exultation of it was so overwhelming that the ordinary world seemed hollow in contrast. To John Steinbeck, it was ``an emotion, a turbulence, an explosion ... one of the most beautiful and violent and satisfying things I have ever experienced.'' On the first Saturday of every May, the Kentucky Derby casts a spell over America. Conceived in 1875, the race has endured every calamity history has thrown at it _ from wars to the temperance movement to the Great Depression _ to become the nation's oldest continuously held sporting event, and arguably its most beloved. On May 4, a colossal throng of more than 150,000 faithful will swarm into Louisville, and millions more will gather around TV screens, to animate this grand tradition for the 128th time. As they watch Harlan's Holiday, Buddha and their rivals vie for the roses, they will experience an event that is unlike any other, a horse race that is much more than a horse race. There is, to begin with, the feel of it. Racehorses are emphatic creatures, massive and lithe and electric, and to witness some 20 of them at the supreme hour of their lives is to drench the senses. There is the metallic crash of the starting gates, the clatter and ring of 150,000 enthralled spectators, the immense, tumbling roll of some 20,000 pounds of horses pummeling the ground with a force equal to twice their weight. The air breaks and whirls, and the roar of voices and the concussion of hooves drives a shiver through the chest. Above all there is speed _ reckless, terrible and thrilling. The genius of the Derby lies in its elegant and comprehensive design, which requires that competitors press the limits of every attribute for which the thoroughbred is prized: strength, speed, agility, endurance, daring, resolve, poise. Courage is paramount, most emphatically illustrated in 1987 by Alysheba, who horrified and amazed the crowd as he was violently bumped, forced back, then nearly knocked down before launching a ferocious rally to win. The race is also the purest meritocracy. While the winner's circle has seen its share of Whitneys and Mellons, it has also been visited by the likes of Rosa Hoots, a gravely dignified Osage Indian whose Black Gold won the roses in 1924, and the profoundly gifted Ansel Williamson, who was freed from slavery only a decade before he trained Aristides, the Derby's first champion. The horses, too, compete on equal terms, whether a former claimer like 1999 winner Charismatic or a multimillion dollar blueblood like 2000 winner Fusaichi Pegasus. Their fates turn not on the gestures of referees or the whims of judges, but in the gutty and furious grind of 10 furlongs. And then there's the dazzling surprise of it. The Derby is vastly more formidable than any race its competitors have encountered. How each one will handle the challenge is a mystery, and the outcome is more often than not a revelation. Since 1979, only one favorite has won. But for every failed favorite, there was another who found his greatness. There is no better example than Canonero II, a bent-legged Venezuelan also-ran who arrived for the 1971 race on a planeload of chickens and elicited little more than jeers until he annihilated the Derby field and won a cult following as The Caracas Cannonball. Most sports championships are won by increments: best-of-seven series, four quarters, three periods. The Derby is far more ruthless, decisively winnowing the great from the good in two overpowering minutes. Were the event longer, the drama would be muted, the speed restrained, the experience diluted. The Derby may be fleeting, but by that virtue it is singularly intense, singularly exquisite, singularly loaded with emotional import. It is an epic in 120 seconds. But perhaps the truth about the Derby's allure lies deeper. For thousands of years, man has felt a visceral connection to the horse. These arrestingly beautiful animals, whose bodies seem to hold infinite promise, have always elicited our admiration and our envy. In the partnership we have formed with them, they have radically altered our history, and we theirs. Organized as the working horse began to slip into obsolescence, the racetrack is now one of the last places where ordinary Americans mingle with horses, as their forebears did. Through this old and fabled and magnificent race _ the ultimate celebration of the communion between horse and man _ we reconnect to the horse's history, and thus to our own. On Saturday, one extraordinary creature will find in himself the talent and the courage to triumph in the Derby. Like 127 of his ancestors before him, he will sweep into the winner's circle, his shoulders wreathed in roses, his name forever amended with the grand words ``Derby winner.'' ``This is the moment, the peak, the pinnacle,'' wrote Faulkner. ``After this, all is ebb.'' (Laura Hillenbrand is the author of The New York Times best seller ``Seabiscuit: An American Legend,'' which is now available in paperback.) 
