For great political theater, you can't beat the combination of Sens. John Kerry, D-Mass., and John McCain, R-Ariz. The two Vietnam veterans were honored recently by the Washington state legislature with a proclamation thanking them for their work with veterans. The pair accepted their certificates at a jolly luncheon on Capitol Hill Thursday. They are close friends, with a similar independent streak, who have overseen the sometimes-contentious congressional efforts to restore a normal relationship with Vietnam. They have worked together on other issues as well. ``He'll talk longer than I will,'' McCain joshed at the luncheon, ``because he's a wannabe and I'm a has-been.'' The Democratic wannabe is, as he admits, ``uncoy'' about his interest in running for president in 2004, but he refuses to make a public announcement yet because he is up for re-election to a fourth term this year. Kerry has no serious opposition but he's no fool. He is campaigning hard back home because he knows a politician can never take anything for granted. One thing Kerry will say is that a decision to run will not be affected by former Vice President Al Gore's plans or, for that matter, those of any other potential presidential candidate. The self-described ``has-been,'' who was beaten by George Bush for the Republican presidential nomination in 2000, still seems interested in the job, too. As McCain left the room, he shouted, ``Kerry for President.'' The Democrat laughed and observed wryly, ``He doesn't sound like a has-been to me.'' Then he joked that he admired McCain for the independence and courage he had shown during ``years of torture at the hands of ideological fanatics _ and that's just the GOP caucus.'' When Kerry returned to the United States in 1969 as a decorated hero after his service in Vietnam, he became an antiwar protester because he felt the politicians had let down the warriors by not figuring out how to end the war. By contrast, McCain came home in 1973, after years as a tortured prisoner of war, as a staunch backer of the conflict for which he had sacrificed so much. When the two became acquainted in the Senate, Kerry says, ``we listened to each other . . . and we bridged that gap.'' Both felt it was in America's national interest to see Vietnam as a country, not just a war. In 1990 they headed a Senate committee that began the process of engagement leading to a resumption of diplomatic and trade relations. The new policy accelerated the recovery of bodies of U.S. soldiers who had died there. As Kerry describes it, McCain was able to ``actually sit and interrogate the very people who had interrogated him.'' Despite their party differences, Kerry, 58, and McCain, 65, have much in common. They are both distinguished naval officers who hold the Silver and Bronze Stars and a Purple Heart. Born into prosperous, distinguished families, they are ruggedly handsome, plain-spoken and charismatic. Kerry, at 6 feet 5 inches, is taller and more imposing, but then he's taller than practically anybody. He's got more hair than practically anybody as well. In March he and McCain led a campaign in the Senate to reduce energy consumption by raising vehicle minimum mileage standards. The measure failed, but they teamed up successfully to block another provision in the energy bill that would have permitted drilling for oil in Alaska's Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. Whatever McCain's White House ambitions, Kerry doesn't believe that his friend would ever leave the Republican Party, as some observers have suggested. ``He has a great affection for his party,'' Kerry said in a relaxed interview in his office before the luncheon. If they share a pet peeve, it is the notion that they can be labeled and stereotyped. At a recent dinner of the Gridiron Club, a group of columnists and correspondents, Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle joked that Kerry is ``the tall Dukakis.'' It was a witty reference to the fact that Gov. Michael Dukakis, the liberal 1990 Democratic presidential nominee, was a rare non-Kennedy from Massachusetts just as Kerry is. But Kerry doesn't care much for the comparison. ``That's too simplistic,'' he insists.``I'm a stand-up person. Labels don't fit me.'' Kerry has a ready answer when asked why he would like to be president. ``It's the strongest pulpit from which to make a difference. It's where you set public policy. That's why I'm in politics. ``I don't like the choices this administration is making,'' he adds. ``President Bush is taking us back to the voodoo economics of the 1980s'' (when President Ronald Reagan deliberately created huge deficits in order to force Congress to cut popular programs he didn't like). Kerry has many assets that would be helpful in a presidential race, including a snazzy wife, Teresa, widow of the late Sen. John Heinz, who is worth some $600 million. His biggest asset, however, is a strong, confident personality. That's the secret of how he's been able to hold his own as a respected voice from Massachusetts, a state that is suspected of bearing an Indian name meaning ``land of many Kennedys.'' (Marianne Means can be reached at the e-mail address means(at)hearstdc.com) 
