The Anaheim Angels reportedly are among four teams the Rangers contacted regarding Gabe Kapler. The Taft High of Woodland Hills and Moorpark College product is being shopped because the Rangers have an abundance of outfielders. The Rangers recently traded for Calvin Murray and expect Juan Gonzalez back from an injury soon. They also have Carl Everett and Rusty Greer. Besides the Angels, the Dodgers, Pirates and Braves are teams possibly interested in Kapler, 26. The Angels might be reluctant to trade for Kapler because of his salary ($1.8 million this year and $3.25 million next year) but could be inclined to acquire him if they don't expect to re-sign center fielder Darin Erstad after the season. Erstad is eligible for free agency after the season and has been noncommittal about his plans for next year. Also, the Angels have what the Rangers are looking for: pitching. The Angels are developing a surplus of pitchers in the farm system and recently called up Matt Wise, who can both start and relieve. Mickey Callaway, who was acquired from the Devil Rays in a trade for minor-league shortstop Wilmy Caceres in the offseason, is another possibility. Callaway is 4-0 with a 0.96 ERA in five starts at Triple-A Salt Lake. Angels general manager Bill Stoneman, who is on the trip with the team, will not comment about players on opposing teams. --In reserve: For now, the Angels' reserve outfielders are Orlando Palmeiro and Julio Ramirez. Ramirez joined the club Thursday after being called up from Triple-A Salt Lake, where he was hitting .266 with one homer and six RBI. Ramirez, 24, briefly played in the majors with the Marlins (1999) and White Sox (2001), hitting .103 (6 for 58) in 37 games. The Angels claimed him off waivers from the White Sox on March 16. ``We'll see what he can do there,'' manager Mike Scioscia said. ``There's a role there available for somebody. We'll use him in right field and as a right-handed bat. We'll see if he's what we're looking for.'' Ramirez said he was ``shocked'' to get called up. He was pulled from the game against Sacramento on Wednesday in the fourth inning and told he was going to Cleveland. When he got to Cleveland on Thursday, he found himself in the starting lineup, batting eighth and playing right field. In his first at-bat, he bunted for a single. He came to the plate for his second at-bat with the bases loaded and two out and struck out. But he made his most significant play of the game in the fifth inning, when he threw out Travis Fryman trying to score from second on a single by Omar Vizquel. --Bradley's ordeal: Indians outfielder Milton Bradley might need surgery on his eye after getting hit with a baseball in Wednesday's game against the Angels. Brad Fullmer's drive to right-center ricocheted off the fence and hit Bradley just below the left eye, breaking the orbital bone. Bradley, who will be re-examined Saturday, has complained of double vision and has an inflamed iris. 
