On the tiny campus of Si Tanka Huron University here, students like Wildmike Pata have a lot on their minds: home, finals and HIV. For many, final exams have been overshadowed by the arrest last week of an 18-year-old classmate, Nikko Briteramos, who plays on the school's basketball team and is charged with knowingly exposing a young woman to HIV. Authorities believe that at least 50 other people may have been exposed to the AIDS virus through Briteramos and two unidentified young women he had sex with, fueling fears in this farming community of 10,000. In all, four people here have tested positive for HIV. The news has left some who know the personable Briteramos feeling numb. ``I know he's not the kind of person that would do that. People see him as a friend,'' said Pata, standing in the Churchill residence hall on campus where Briteramos also lived. ``Nikko, he's a cool, calm guy,'' said Pata, 19, adding that he was among dozens who attended a court hearing on Monday to show their support for Briteramos. Tuesday Briteramos remained in jail, charged with five counts of knowingly exposing a woman to the AIDS virus through unprotected sex, a felony. He is the first person in South Dakota to face such charges. If convicted on all counts, he could face 75 years in prison. His court-appointed lawyer, Mary Keller, argued in court that her client should be released on personal recognizance because neither he nor his family could pay the $10,000 cash bond and because he did not pose a danger to the community. But Judge Jon Erickson denied the request and ordered Briteramos to remain in the Beadle County Jail, a decision he explained in an interview after court on Monday. ``At this point, my decision was that I couldn't assure his appearance on personal recognizance and I thought he might pose a danger to himself or others,'' Judge Erickson said. Briteramos is to appear in court again on Thursday for a preliminary hearing, although the state's attorney, Michael Moore, did not rule out a grand jury indictment being handed up before then. ``It is a possibility,'' Moore said on Tuesday morning. Barb Buhler, a State Health Department spokeswoman, said at least 200 people have been tested for HIV since last week, in a state that reported 22 HIV cases last year. Before last week, there had been only six known cases in the entire county since 1985, Buhler said. The case is reminiscent of one in upstate New York in 1997 in which a 20-year-old man, Nushawn Williams, who was HIV positive, was arrested after the authorities said he had unprotected sex with 48 women and girls, 13 of whom were later confirmed to be HIV positive. State health officials here say that Briteramos, who is from Chicago, learned from the Red Cross in late March that blood he donated a month earlier had tested positive for the AIDS virus, although it has not been determined how he became infected. The authorities said Briteramos was arrested on April 23, a short time after Health Department counselors, conducting a follow-up, were greeted by Briteramos, who appeared at his dormitory door wearing underwear, and had a young woman in his room. The authorities said Briteramos admitted to the counselors that he had had unprotected sex with the young woman and that he had not told her that he was HIV positive. The authorities said Briteramos later provided the names of his sexual partners. Health department officials said that the results of students' HIV tests are pending in most cases. Meanwhile, the campus, with an enrollment of 400, continues to express shock. ``We're a small school. It's family. If something happens to one of us, it happens to all of us,'' Brad Smith, the school's interim chancellor, said, sitting in his office, where his computer screen displayed an Internet article about the college's troubles. ``It's shook our world.'' The university has an unusual history. Last year, Si Tanka College, operated by the Cheyenne River Sioux tribe, bought Huron University and merged the two. It is the first off-reservation tribal-controlled university in the United States, according to the university's Web site. It seems that everybody knows Briteramos, the 6-foot-7 center on the basketball team. Friends described him as a polite young man who was a good student and had arrived at the university in east central South Dakota on a basketball scholarship. ``It's really sad for me. Nikko was my really good friend,'' said Tara Bernard, 18, a criminal justice major. She said she went to court on Monday ``to support him, to let him know that people still care about him. ``The way I want it to turn out is he gets out and gets on with his life,'' Bernard said. ``He has so much going. But it's not looking real good right now.'' In town to support his son, Disraeli Briteramos, who described himself as Afro-Cuban American, called the case a ``public lynching.'' Briteramos, 47, of Chicago, said his son was being depicted as a ``viral terrorist who had invaded their pristine community.'' ``I just hate the fact that he has been stigmatized nationally,'' he said. ``This is my son. He's a great person, a friend to anybody.'' (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS) Over the last week, Health Department officials have dispatched additional counselors to Huron to speak at an assembly at Huron High School and to counsel students at the university, where classes were canceled last Thursday in response to the news. Justin Harper and Tim Emerson, both freshmen, said that although they did not feel they were at risk, they were among a growing number of students who were being tested, just to be sure. ``It's kind of distracting,'' said Emerson, 19, taking a study break on Monday night. ``It's kind of like everyone's worried about it, even if you haven't been messing around and stuff.'' ``We don't have anything to worry about, right now,'' said Harper, also 19. ``But the people that have, you're half scared for them,'' Emerson added. ``The whole campus is worried.'' 
