For Release Friday AMS, May 3, 2002 	The Boston Globe plans to move the following stories for use by NYTimes News Service clients.  For questions about stories, please call Jean Conley at the Boston Globe, 617-929-2597. For individual purchase of budgeted graphics or photos please call 212-556-4204 or 888-603-1036. 	All stories will bear the BOS designator. 	INTERNATIONAL (i) 	MIDEAST-ARAFAT (Ramallah, West Bank) - Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat emerges from his bullet-riddled headquarters surveying the devastation of the Israeli military operation, basking in cheers of supporters, and saying that he and his people were strengthened by 34 days of virtual imprisonment by Israeli troops. By Charles Sennott. 1400 words. 	MIDEAST-POWELL (Washignton) _ Secretary of State Colin Powel announces an international conference would be held this summer to try to advance Mideast peace efforts, including officials from the US, Europe, the UN and Russia. By Anne Kornblut. 850 words. 	ATTACK-AFGHAN (Washington) _ US military officials say the military operation under way in southeastern Afghanistan is seeking to flush out guerrilla fighters who have eluded US forces since Operation Anaconda ended in mid-March. The British government announced that up to 1,000 Royal Marines are spearheading the search-and-destroy mission. By Bryan Bender and Brian MacQuarrie. 1100 words. 	WASHINGTON (w) 	FARM-HOUSE (Washington) _ The House passed a massive farm bill that critics say would spark a new trade war with Europe, artificially inflate land prices, give billions in new subsidies to big producers and absentee landowners -- and cost tens of billions more than its estimated $73 billlion price tag. Senate may take measure up Friday. By Sue Kirchhoff. 1000 words. 	CLONE-HATCH (Washington) _ Some were surprised this week when Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah announced his support of human cloning for therapeutic purposes. In fact, Hatch has long been a friend of the industry, and the industry has responded in kind, giving Hatch $400,000, more money in campaign contributions than it gave any other candidate in the 2000 cycle. By Michael Kranish. 1300 words. 	MIDEAST-CONGRESS (Washington) _ House and Senate expected to vote Friday on their versions of a resolution on the Middle East crisis. Each version, sponsored by Republican whip Tom DeLay in the House and Democratic Senator Joe Lieberman in the Senate, is pro-Israel, although the exact wording of the two differs. By Susan Milligan. 900 words. 	NATIONAL (a) 	CHURCH-SHANLEY (San Diego) _ The Rev. Paul Shanley, who has been at the center of the Boston sex abuse scandal, is arrested on charges he repeatedly raped a young boy over a seven-year period, sometimes in the church confessional. Shanley, 71, voluntarily surrendered at his home in San Diego. He is charged with three counts of rape of a child in Massachusetts. By Walter Robinson. 1400 words. 	w/ 	CHURCH-MEMORY (Undated) - If the victim involved in the criminal case against Paul Shanley remembered the abuse after reading about Shanley in the Globe, the case could hinge on the legally problematic issue of recovered memory and whether such evidence would be admissible in court. By Michele Kurtz. 600 words. 	FRIDAY-COLLEGES (Undated) _ It's an end-of-week tradition treasured by college students across the country: Tap the keg, turn up the stereo, and forget about exams and grade-point averages. Now, college administrators are saying enough. By Jenna Russell. 1400 words. 	FINANCIAL (f) 	GENUITY-JOBS (Undated) - Genuity Inc., a seller of high-speed Internet access, will eliminate 1,100 to 1,200 more jobs this quarter, as much as 29 percent of the workforce, after first-quarter sales fell 6 percent. The company also will pare capital spending and may close more data centers and administrative facilities. By Peter J. Howe. 900 words. 	CANADA-TARIFFS (Bangor) - A US trade agency said Canadian softwood lumber imports are hurting US sawmills, opening the way for duties averaging 27 percent on $6 billion worth of Canadian boards and setting up a fight at the World Trade Organization. By Sue Kirchhoff. 600 words. 	NOVARTIS-MOVE (Undated) - Big pharmaceutical firm Novartis is the latest of the drug giants to set up shop in Boston. All the big pharma firms are setting up satellite research shops here to take advantage of genome research. By Jeffrey Krasner. 800 words. 	SPORTS (s) 	BBA-REDSOX-NOMAR (Undated) _ Nomar Garciaparra has a 15-game hitting streak and may finally be fully recovered from his wrist injury. By Bob Hohler. 	BKN-CELTICS-SIXERS (Undated) _ The last three games between the Celtics and Sixers have come down to the last few minutes of the fourth quarter. The Celtics haven't come up with the big play in the last two, both losses. Crunching the numbers at crunch time. By Shira Springer. 	w/ 	BKN-CELTICS-NBA (Undated) _ While you may not have been looking, a strange and wonderful thing happened to the NBA. It got better. By Bob Ryan. 	SHAUGHNESSY-COLUMN (Undated) _ It's Game 5. It's Boston. It's Philadelphia. It doesn't get much better than that. By Dan Shaughnessy. 	The Boston Globe 
