A senior at Union College, Derek McCowan lives in an apartment off campus. It has a fully furnished kitchen, which until two months ago was about as familiar to McCowan as the inside of a spaceship. ``As pathetic as it sounds, I didn't know how to cook anything,'' said McCowan, who is from East Greenwich, R.I. ``I didn't know the first thing about feeding myself, other than bringing takeout food home.'' Not anymore. McCowan now likes to impress his girlfriend with baked stuffed shrimp and a trifle for dessert, dishes he learned to prepare during a noncredit course he took at the home of Andrew Wolfe, a civil engineering professor at Union. Call it Life Skills 101. The informal cooking classes at the Wolfe household in Schenectady are a popular addition to the Union College curriculum. In sessions that range from five to eight weeks, depending on which trimester it is and Wolfe's energy level, the bearded, curly-haired professor takes students like McCowan who have virtually no culinary experience and infuses them with the confidence to cook almost anything. ``The goal is to get them to not be intimidated,'' Wolfe explains. ``You're at college. It's time to learn stuff. To me, this is one of the things you've got to have when you go out in the world.'' The students don't follow recipes. Wolfe begins each session with a simple sign-up sheet that requires each participant to decide what they want to learn how to make. On a recent Sunday the choices were sushi, chicken cordon bleu, grilled chicken pieces, sauteed julienned carrots, Boy Scout potatoes and apple crisp. Wolfe and his wife, Lisa, give brief demonstrations on basic kitchen techniques like skinning and cutting up a whole chicken. He also shows the group how to make a California roll, telling them where to buy the seaweed and what type of rice to use. At the end of the course, Wolfe gives each student a cookbook of recipes they have made, plus many more. During the different classes, however, the emphasis is on learning how to prepare and experimenting. ``Our motto is, `It doesn't matter, except in baking.' If you want to add something or leave something out, go right ahead,'' Wolfe said. ``I tell them you have to be aware of who you're cooking for, and if you're not going to eat what you're making, don't make it.'' There are no grades. Just food. Lots of food. And companionship. There is a final exam, though. After all, this is college. For the final, Wolfe hosts a pot luck and asks each student to prepare and bring something of their choosing. The cooking classes started two years ago when Wolfe invited a handful of seniors to his house near the college to show them how to make beer, a hobby he has enjoyed for years. He traditionally brews an ale for the senior class picnic. That's when one of the students confessed to what he had eaten for dinner the night before: tuna fish straight from the can, with mustard squirted on it. Wolfe, a one-time restaurant short-order cook, was appalled and inspired. He obtained a grant from the dean of students' office and began offering the seven-week class. The students pay $3 per class, which with the grant covers the cost of the ingredients, and each student usually leaves with enough leftovers to last several days. ``The trick is to make twice as much as we can eat, so we have dinners for the rest of the week,'' McCowan explains. (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.) Not every student who signs up for Wolfe's course is a cooking illiterate. Larissa Powers, a sophomore from Westford, Mass., is taking the class for the second time in a row because it gives her the opportunity to cook which she can't do in her dorm room. ``One thing these classes have done is help me to organize my cooking skills,'' she said. Wolfe has a large dining room table. It serves as the prep station for most of the dishes. On nice days he also takes advantage of a grill pit in the backyard of his home. While the various dishes are finishing cooking, the students clean the dining room and set the table for dinner. Conversation ranges from rants about homework assignments to what they have learned how to cook. ``We sample everything and talk about how we made it,'' Wolfe said. ``The goal is to get them to not be intimidated. The key question is, would they make it again? ``Working without recipes will hopefully give them the confidence to cook on their own. If you go home and make chicken cordon bleu for your mom and dad, it might get your parents to think they're getting something for that $30,000 a year they're spending.'' 
