Halfway through their series with the Islanders, the Maple Leafs lost their captain and 41-goal scorer, Mats Sundin, to a broken wrist. On Monday, they discovered they would lose the valuable forward Shayne Corson to a suspension. The wily Corson had been the Leafs' best hope of neutralizing the Islanders' scoring threat Alexei Yashin. But he was unavailable Tuesday night, suspended one game for kicking Islanders defenseman Eric Cairns during a fight near the end of Game 6. So the Leafs entered Game 7 with a battered and bruised team and without their usual leaders among the skaters. Alexander Mogilny scored two goals in the Leafs' 4-2 victory to capture the series, but the best player was arguably forward Gary Roberts, who assumed a leadership role during the entire series but particularly in this decisive game. As the Maple Leafs stormed the Islanders' net and the puck bounced around goalie Chris Osgood midway through the second period, the hulking Roberts left nothing to chance. Islanders defenseman Darren Van Impe looked for the puck behind the net, but Roberts skated hard through the zone and slammed his opponent into the boards. The puck sailed past, allowing the Leafs to continue their press. Roberts, sporting black and blue swelling under his left eye and a small row of stitches on his cheek, was a menacing force in this series, and Tuesday night's game was no exception. He finished his checks. He nailed his passes. He managed four shots on goal in the first period, scoring Toronto's first goal when he scooped up a tidy drop pass from Tie Domi outside a face-off circle. His goal, at 13 minutes 27 seconds of the first period, tied the score at 1-1. He set up Mogilny for an empty-net insurance goal with 40 seconds remaining. ``I haven't taken the puck to the net in this series like I know I can,'' Roberts said. ``It was nice to score. I tried to do that early in the game. I was just coming off the bench so my legs were fresh, and Tie made a great play to get me the puck.'' On his way through the crease during his scoring play, Roberts tripped over a falling Osgood. His skate seemed to strike Osgood on the leg. It appeared unintentional, but it threw Osgood and the Islanders off their game for at least a period. Early in the third period, Roberts slid headfirst and hard into Osgood, pushing him inside his net. ``I was just trying to get to the net and be smart and not get any penalties,'' said Roberts, who won a Stanley Cup with the Calgary Flames in 1989. Roberts was a force against an Islanders club missing its own captain, the injured Michael Peca. Roberts led the Leafs in hits in three games. He scored two goals and contributed four assists. He knocked the Islanders' top defenseman, Kenny Jonsson, out of the series in Game 5 with a punishing check from behind. ``Gary brought a lot of leadership tonight,'' forward Darcy Tucker said. ``He got us back into the game with his goal, and he kept us in with his physical play. We lost a lot of leadership in this series, and because of his Stanley Cup experience all the guys fell in behind him.'' Roberts is no stranger to the role. Roberts, a 6-foot-1, 190-pound Toronto native, notched 11 points in 11 games in the Leafs' postseason run to the conference semifinals last year. And he has been as important if not more to the club this spring. ``He's been really important to us throughout the season,'' forward Alyn McCauley said. ``Even in the loss, he got us a goal in Game 6. That got us going for this game, and then lo and behold, he gets our first goal tonight. It's not surprising, coming from him.'' 
