The Bush administration is poised to slap huge tariffs on Canadian lumber shipments to the United States, thanks in part to Moose River Lumber Co. of western Maine, one of four firms that formally requested the move to protect domestic sawmills. But Moose River executives don't want to talk about the issue much. They worry about angering the Canadian company that owns half their operation. ``It is a complex issue, to say the least, for Maine. Our organization is on both sides of the fence,'' said Jeff Easterling, president of the Northeastern Lumber Manufacturers' Association. His group includes Moose River; wholly Canadian-owned mills located in Maine; and US-run operations: all part of a numbingly complex system of cross-border lumber trade and ownership that could be rearranged if the duties take effect. The US International Trade Commission will decide Thursday whether American producers have been injured by subsidized lumber from Canada. A yes vote would clear the way for 27 percent tariffs on about $6 billion in annual Canadian exports of softwood lumber _ varieties such as spruce and fir used in home building. A negative vote would end the issue _ at least in its current permutation. But no one foresees any quick solution to the lumber dispute, which involves a third of the US timber market and stretches back over decades. Already the industry is talking about alternative ways to impose restraint on Canada. Even if the proposed tariffs don't turn out to be the final solution, the intricacies and the intense Maine lobbying around the current plan illustrates how complex the trade relationship is. The issue resonates in Maine, where six sawmills and nearly as many specialized wood mills have closed since the beginning of 2001, throwing hundreds of people out of work _ many in isolated areas where there are few other options. Prices have been low in recent years despite a national housing boom. Along with mill owners, the state's two Republican senators have been pushing hard for new trade protections. But even staunch advocates say the tariffs pose clear economic risks. The issue is so divisive that the Maine Forest Products Council, the largest timber organization in the state, has not taken a formal position. Loggers and landowners in remote northern reaches of Maine _ where 11.5 million acres of land are privately owned and the main thoroughfares are timber roads _ depend on about 20 Quebec mills to process their timber. While the Bush administration has decided to shield 11 of the firms from tariffs, the remaining so-called border mills would have to pay the heavy duties on finished Maine lumber re-exported to the United States. ``In some cases you're dealing with (Canadian) mills using Maine wood that would face tariffs,'' said Senator Susan Collins, a Maine Republican. ``In other cases Maine mills have closed because of Canadian timber subsidies.'' Some private landowners, who control nearly all the timber in the state, argue that unless more border mills are exempted they will be unable to sell timber at a profit, depressing land and ultimately timber prices. Domestic mills disagree, saying they can increase capacity if the tariffs take effect. ``For my company as a whole it's good, because (Canada) will be less apt to dump material at less than production cost, which is what's happened in the past couple of years,'' said Jim Outram, senior vice president for marketing at Hancock Lumber Co.'s sawmill division. The firm owns three mills and nine retail stores in Maine. ``It used to be true that these border mills were necessary because the infrastructure didn't exist to get logs'' to market, he said. ``That's not true any more.'' The issue is further complicated by consolidation in the industry and the growing presence of Canadian companies. Many Maine mills are now Canadian-owned, and J.D. Irving Ltd. of New Brunswick has become the biggest landowner in the state. While Canadian shipments are viewed as the biggest competitive threat, Maine operators also are keeping an eye on growing imports from Eastern Europe and Asia. Lloyd Irland, a forestry consultant in Windsor, Maine, likens the situation to ``Jack and Jacques in a canoe, paddling in opposite directions, facing each other. Jack and Jacques have got to start paddling in the same direction. . . . this is a zero-sum game over our own market.'' The uncertainties in Maine point to the broader economic and political stakes facing the Bush administration. Coming on the heels of a White House decision to impose steel tariffs, new administration-supported farm subsidies _ and talk of textile protections _ the issue has helped undercut the White House free-trade stance. The two nations reached a brief respite in their lumber war in 1996 when they negotiated a five-year deal limiting Canadian exports. Since that agreement expired last March, the issue has resurfaced with a vengeance. US producers say Canadian lumber, which is primarily harvested from government-owned land, is sold at below-market value. Canadian officials, who have called the proposed tariffs ``obscene,'' deny the charges, saying the United States, in trying to protect its domestic market, is pushing policies that will hurt consumers. Home builders say the tariffs will increase the cost of an average house by $1,500. Negotiations to work out a settlement fell apart in March, leading to the US government's announcement of the proposed tariffs. Both sides still hope for a deal before mid-May. Canada has floated the possibility of an export tax while it reshapes its policies. ``We remain open to pursuing good faith negotiations leading to a long-term solution,'' said Rodney Moore of the Canadian Embassy. Environmental groups are in the fray, arguing that the tariffs could help slow what they call overcutting in Canada. There is intense lobbying over the details of any settlement among home builders, retailers like Home Depot, mills, and landowners. They are arguing over details that could make a major difference in Maine. ``These are very difficult times in rural communities. While the economy is strengthening, we're still seeing manufacturing facilities close down and our manufacturing base continues to erode,'' said Craig Holland, senior economic analyst at the Maine Department of Labor. Front and center are the border mills, which expanded in the 1970s and '80s when Maine was hit by a spruce budworm epidemic that ravaged forests. Landowners needed increased capacity for a major salvage operation, said Dave Holden of the consulting firm James W. Sewall Co. Collins is working with the Bush administration, Maine landowners, and mill owners to get more border mills exempted. Mills would be forced to pay the duty if more than a small percentage of their lumber comes from government-owned land. The issue is crucial in Maine but small in the overall scope of the trade dispute. ``These transactions across the border have been going on since Methuselah, it's forever,'' said Donald White, president of Prentiss &AMP; Carlisle in Bangor, which manages 850,000 acres of Maine timberland. Prentiss &AMP; Carlisle figures that unless more border mills are exempted, their landowners would face prices so low it wouldn't be worth their while to cut the timber. The Hancock Timber Resource Group, a division of John Hancock Financial Services, said in a recent newsletter that the tariffs could be a significant boon to owners of pine lands in the southern United States. Making it even harder to assess the impact of the tariffs, Canada's maritime provinces would pay only about an 8 percent duty. J.D. Irving is headquartered in New Brunswick, so it would pay the partial duty there, no duty on its Maine operations _ and its Quebec border mill has been exempted. Further, Canadian firms are interested in purchasing an idled mill near Bangor, a deal that could be complicated by the tariffs. Experts say the tariffs may have already been priced into lumber. But opposing sides differ on the ultimate effects. ``Under the softwood lumber agreement there were quarterly spikes in lumber,'' said Mike Fritz, president of Rugg Lumber in Greenfield, Mass., active in a coalition opposing the tariffs. ``There's less price stability under an artificial agreement we haven't heard any good way to transition into this.'' Even supporters like Outram at Hancock Lumber say any deal is not a final solution. ``The reality is that wood is going to be made, and it's going to come into the United States because they don't have anyplace else to go with it,'' he said. ``If you look at history, the other times the duty has gone up, the lumber prices actually settle out lower than they were prior to the duty going into effect.'' Sue Kirchhoff can be reached at kirchhoff(at)globe.com. 
