This is near, but not exactly, where Charles A. Lindbergh took off for Paris on May 20, 1927, and the 75th anniversary of that epic flight is nearly three weeks away. But 36-year-old Erik R. Lindbergh celebrated the anniversary of his grandfather's flight on Wednesday. ``I really wanted to mark it in some way,'' said Lindbergh. ``I'm ready to go.'' So just after noon he taxied a sleek single-engine craft past a line of well-wishers at Republic Airport here. Pausing to pop open the hatch door, he waved and gave a hearty thumbs up. Soon after, his plane streaked into a cloudless blue sky and in a goodbye maneuver made a quick tilt to the left and then to the right. Lindbergh planned to arrive at Le Bourget Field, just outside Paris in 16 hours, about half the time of his grandfather's odyssey. Lindbergh scheduled the flight for Wednesday in order to allow filming and editing for a History Channel program to be televised on the actual anniversary date. No one can fault him for failing to use the original site of his grandfather's takeoff, Roosevelt Field, about 10 miles from here. It has long since been paved over by one of the world's largest conglomerations of shopping centers. Besides honoring ``my grandfather's legacy,'' Lindbergh said he was using the flight to publicize three causes. One is the Arthritis Foundation, which fights an illness that crippled him so badly that he gave up his dream of replicating the flight until taking a new drug enabled him to resume flying. The other causes are the Lindbergh Foundation, which promotes a balance between technology and the environment, and the X Prize Foundation, which fosters private space travel. It offers $10 million to the first non-government team to make two space flights in two weeks, a lure paralleling the $25,000 Orteig prize that Charles A. Lindbergh won for the first solo flight to Europe. That mission had seemed foolhardy; several pilots had already died trying to cross the ocean. Lindbergh persisted with little more than a wing and a prayer _ his Spirit of St. Louis had a mono-wing. Making room for more fuel, he even shunned a parachute and radio. But he landed to a tumultuous ovation by 100,000 fans and became an international hero instantly; his success opened the way to long-distance and trans-oceanic aviation. Lindbergh readily described Wednesday's flight as ``more a celebration than a re-creation.'' The New Spirit of St. Louis, a black and white Lancair Columbia 300 made of carbon composite, is smaller, lighter and faster than the original. At 36 feet, it is 10 feet shorter, and its 4,260 pounds are 990 fewer. Lindbergh is carrying ample snacks, a spare radio, a raft and modern instruments, with monitoring by a mission control in St. Louis. Among those seeing him off was Janet L. Simpson of Glen Cove, L.I., who was 16 when she witnessed his grandfather's takeoff. ``It was a misty day,'' she said. ``We saw him climbing in. I probably had a young girl's crush on him, with his curly blond hair and putting on the aviator's cap with the flaps. It seemed like such a tiny plane, with this tall, lanky man, so handsome. We were just hoping and praying he would be OK'' 
