Two crystal-encrusted motorcycles in the windows of Saks Fifth Avenue stopped Helen O'Hagan in her tracks. ``I think it's quite wonderful,'' said O'Hagan, 71, of Manhattan. ``Swarovski is very well known for their figures and handbags, but this is the first time I've seen them applied to something like this.'' Swarovski, the world's largest crystal company, is attracting attention by finding unconventional uses for its glittering stones. Nadja Swarovski, the company's international communications director, has enlisted designers to create original items, including clothing, home decor and even motorcycles. The 2002 Kawasaki 2x-12 R Ninja and the 2002 BMW R 1200C that caught O'Hagan's eye were part of the Rockefeller Center Motorcycle Show in April. The crystal company, based in Austria, worked with Coco Chanel and other top-notch designers starting in the early 1900s. But Swarovski, 32, has been the driving force in seeking up-and-coming designers. Under her direction, creative service centers have opened in major fashion cities like Paris and New York City, where designers are invited to examine the crystals for use in original designs. As a result, an $11,000 Kawasaki Ninja motorcycle became the raw material for the designer Leeora Catalan of Noir, which is known for its funky clothing accessories. Last year, Swarovski approached Catalan, who covered the sleek Ninja model with 50,000 crystals, some as small as an eighth of an inch in diameter. Even the thin wheel rims sparkle, and purple crystals spell out Ninja on the side of the bike, which was unveiled last year and is featured on the cover of Mariah Carey's ``Glitter'' CD. The Ninja is on display at Shop Noir in SoHo, but it is to be auctioned for charity by the end of the year. Swarovski designers also transformed the $15,100 BMW R1200C motorcycle. They adorned it, and a matching helmet, with an assortment of topaz, sapphire and black crystals. The BMW made its debut in March during Oscar week in Los Angeles, where many celebrities wear Swarovski jewelry and studded clothing. It will be auctioned by June 1 for the benefit of the Children's Miracle Network, a nonprofit organization dedicated to helping children's hospitals throughout North America. Swarovski stones sparkled on Nicole Kidman's gowns in the movie ``Moulin Rouge,'' and Britney Spears wore 50,000 dazzling cuts for the MTV Video Music Awards last September. A pair of shimmering Adidas sneakers and a sofa encrusted with 500,000 Swarovski crystals have also been created. ``A lot of people don't really know it's not just jewelry and figurines,'' said Ruthie Vexler, a spokeswoman for Swarovski. ``There is everything from crystal tattoos to crystal mesh for lingerie.'' There may not be a market for bejeweled motorcycles, but BMW and Kawasaki used them to gain exposure with an upscale audience. According to a survey commissioned by the Motorcycle Industry Council, the typical rider is a 38-year-old male who is married, has attended college and earns $44,250 a year. One out of every 12 motorcycle owners in the United States is a woman, the survey said. And at least one onlooker at the Saks window said the BMW bike had a feminine side. ``It's amazing,'' said Pascal Giroud, 36, a motorcycle enthusiast from Paris. ``I think it's very glamorous. The model of the bike is old-fashioned. It's like a female with all diamonds.'' (EDITORS: There is no charge for use of this story, but please send a tearsheet to Professor Stephen D. Isaacs, Columbia News Service, Graduate School of Journalism, Columbia University, 2950 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10027.) 
