In his first glimpse of the world outside his battered headquarters in more than a month, Yasser Arafat toured this war-scarred city on Thursday, greeting schoolchildren, kissing babies and praying for Palestinian ``martyrs.'' It was something of a victory lap for Arafat, 72, whose popularity soared among Palestinians during the Israeli siege on his compound. Israeli tanks rolled out of Ramallah early Thursday, after six Palestinians wanted by Israel were transferred to a Palestinian prison in a U.S.-brokered deal that ended the tense standoff here. President Bush, speaking to reporters in Washington, said the longtime Palestinian leader was ``now free to show leadership.'' A Palestinian state would be forged through negotiation, Bush said, not terror. ``I'm optimistic we're making good progress,'' Bush said. ``After all a week ago, Yasser Arafat was boarded up in this building in Ramallah.'' In the Palestinian city of Bethlehem, a month-long standoff had yet to be resolved. Meanwhile, Israel continues to face accusations of humanitarian violations in its siege of the Jenin Refugee Camp. In a report to be released on Friday, New York-based Human Rights Watch said there was no evidence of a massacre at Jenin, where 23 Israeli soldiers and about 50 Palestinians were killed. But the investigation found evidence to suggest Israeli soldiers may have committed war crimes. A three-member team that spent a week conducting interviews at the camp found that 22 of the Palestinian dead were civilians. Many of those were killed ``willfully or unlawfully,'' according to a summary of the report. The investigation also concluded that Israeli soldiers used civilians as human shields and ``used indiscriminate and excessive force during the operation.'' The Israeli army conducted its own investigation into the battle and found no wrongdoing, according to Col. Miri Eisen of Israel's military intelligence. At a news conference Thursday, she bristled at reporters' repeated questions about the allegations. ``We are not talking about a playground here,'' she said. ``We're talking about a terrorist camp in the center of a refugee camp. Maybe we should address the fact that in the center of a refugee camp, 100 or so terrorists built a booby-trapped minefield and not about the other issues.'' Among the civilian deaths documented by the human rights group were a 57-year-old wheelchair-bound man shot and then run over by Israeli tanks, and a 14-year-old boy fired on from an Israeli armored vehicle while on his way to buy groceries. Human Rights Watch called for further investigation. But that is not likely. On Wednesday, U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan cancelled a fact-finding mission to Jenin after the Israeli government refused to cooperate. In Bethlehem on Thursday, Israeli troops fired at three armed Palestinians walking from the besieged church into adjacent Manger Square. One was killed and two were wounded, the army said. Palestinians returned fire. The body of the dead man, one of the wounded Palestinians and third man who was ill, were later evacuated from the church, built on the site revered by Christians as the birthplace of Jesus. Early Thursday morning, during another gun battle, a fire broke out atop a tower close to the original 4th-century basilica. Arafat blamed Israeli tracer fire for starting the blaze, a charge that Israeli officials initially denied. Hours later, however, Eisen said the army was investigating the possibility that Israeli flares started the fire, which burned for half an hour _ images beamed around the world by television news networks. The Franciscans, a Roman Catholic order, held Israelis and Palestinians equally responsible for ``this continuing, intolerable and increasingly dangerous situation.'' About 10 peace activists, some from the United States, broke through the Israeli military cordon and entered the church, delivering food to those inside. They intended to remain there until the standoff ends. Most of the Palestinians remaining in the compound, perhaps several dozen, are men accused by Israel of attacks on Israelis, Eisen said. At least 10 are considered ``high wanted'' men, ``people who have blood on their hands,'' she said. Negotiations for a peaceful resolution have apparently stalled. Israel demands that the men stand trial in Israel or be permanently exiled. Palestinian negotiators propose they be released in the Gaza Strip, Palestinian territory whose borders are tightly controlled by Israel. Bethlehem is the last remaining Palestinian city still occupied by Israel after its massive military offensive in the West Bank last month. The operation was launched in response to a wave of Palestinian suicide bombings that killed several dozen Israelis. In Ramallah, Arafat emerged from his broken compound, where he was confined to a few rooms since March 29, when Israeli forces attacked and entered the headquarters. Arafat has been trapped in Ramallah for nearly five months after Israeli tanks surrounded his compound during fighting in December. Arafat visited buildings damaged by the Israeli incursion: the education ministry, a cultural center, a parliament building under construction and a police station. At a hospital, where 15 Palestinians were buried last month in a mass grave in the parking lot, he vowed to erect a memorial. ``The more destruction I see, the stronger I get,'' he told reporters. The living symbol of the Palestinian national movement, Arafat, wearing his customary checkered keffiyeh headdress and olive drab uniform, smiled widely as schoolchildren waved small, plastic Palestinian flags and chanted, ``Soul and blood, We sacrifice our soul and blood for Abu Amar,'' referring to Arafat by his nom de guerre. Aides ushered him through throngs people who surged toward him to catch a closer look, or to reach out a hand. Arafat is free to leave the country, Israeli officials said, but they could not guarantee his return in the event of a suicide bombing. ``The deal in Ramallah,'' said Danny Ayalon, adviser to Prime Minster Ariel Sharon, ``also includes the expectation that he will fight terror and will stop incitement. Of course if doesn't do either, then we should reconsider our steps against him.'' Robert W. Gee can be contacted at bgee(at)statesman.com. ENDIT Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
