History is filled with the names of men who held fast to their dreams and prevailed against great odds. Washington. Gandhi. Mandela. Schoonmaker. Schoonmaker? L. Craig Schoonmaker -- phonetist, gay activist and onetime write-in presidential candidate -- has dreamed of a greater United States of America since he graduated from high school in 1962. Back then, he developed the idea that the United States needed to expand. Granting statehood to Alaska and Hawaii wasn't enough. Schoonmaker thought the country should annex Canada. ``Canada doesn't really have a reason for existing, and many Canadians are realizing that,'' he once posted on a Web site. From his Newark, N.J., apartment, he keeps up a steady drumbeat for his plans through his own site (http://hometown.aol.com/XPUS/). In 1977, he founded the Expansionist Party of the United States, known as XPUS. It is ``a general-purpose political organization,'' he wrote, ``dedicated to geographic enlargement of the United States, ultimately to culminate in world union under the Constitution.'' He hasn't convinced many people. Not officially registered as a political party, the movement consists of, well ... mainly Schoonmaker and his HTML skills. ``Very few people come forward with paid memberships,'' he said. He estimated that about 700 people have donated money or requested information since the party's founding a quarter-century ago. ``We've had difficulty getting interest and publicity,'' he conceded. In the last few years, Web sites and discussion groups have materialized to advocate a full union of the United States and Canada. For decades, individuals and groups saw such a political arrangement between the two nations as advantageous, attainable and inevitable. But a union of the two countries has not been encouraged on either side of the border. Arguments in favor of amalgamation are familiar: a common language, consumption of American popular culture, greater coordination in security and defense matters and natural east-west cross-border trade patterns. Others are not so widespread: alienation from the central government in Ottawa, the weak state of the Canadian dollar and the so-called ``brain drain'' of talent due south. ``I believe there's a large number of people who have not considered the possible yet,'' said Charles Kropke, North American coordinator for United States International, a loose affiliation of groups that strive to attract more regions to join the United States as states. He insisted that a Canadian-American union could happen within 10 years. ``All it needs is a major Canadian fallout,'' he said. Not too many Canadians, outside of the predominantly French-speaking province of Quebec, support the idea of becoming Americans. An August 2001 Canadian Press/Leger Marketing poll showed that only one in every five Canadians favored annexation to the United States. One in every three Quebeckers favored it. Such poll numbers have not dampened the enthusiasm of advocates of annexation. ``The quicker annexation happens, the happier everyone will be,'' said Paul Adams, a self-styled ``world citizen'' who runs the American Millennial Order Web site from his Toronto home. His site encourages other nations to join the United States voluntarily. ``Americans are cool to the idea,'' he said. ``They're happy with what they have.'' ``Most responses are antagonistic,'' he said, ``especially from Canadians.'' Ryan Cassel, president of the Alberta Residents' League, agrees that more popular support is needed before approaching the United States with a proposal to make Alberta the 51st state. ``I don't think that we'd have a problem with the States, if there is a will for it,'' he said. Separation from Canada, followed by admission to the United States, would not be easy. In 2000, the government of Prime Minister Jean Chretien passed the Clarity Act, which set the stiff terms for any province's secession from Canada. The statute, designed to be daunting, requires a clear majority of the province's population to favor secession, agreement of all the other provinces and a division of assets and liabilities between Canada's federal government and the departing one. ``You don't put into your constitution an exit clause,'' said Robert Thacker, professor of Canadian studies at St. Lawrence University in Canton, N.Y. Assuming that a province could surmount these hurdles, it would still have to apply for statehood. The official line of the United States government gives no inclination that it would welcome any such renegade. ``The world and the United States alike would sorely miss an independent Canada were it to disappear in one fashion or another,'' said Charles M. Barclay, spokesman for the State Department's Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs. The odds, logistics and indifference don't deter a true believer such as Schoonmaker, whose mission remains an uphill battle. After 25 years, ``it's more than a hobby and less than a career,'' he said. (EDITORS: There is no charge for use of this story, but please send a tearsheet to Professor Stephen D. Isaacs, Columbia News Service, Graduate School of Journalism, Columbia University, 2950 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10027.) 
