I came across a new way to describe Wine Country _ rural chic. It's what a San Francisco writer called Healdsburg in a restaurant review. I broadened it to take in the whole of Wine Country as a definition of a place that sometimes seems so Marin and sometimes so Mendocino and, most of the time, in between. An oxymoron, rural chic paints a picture of a guy in overalls with Picassos in his barn. I take it to mean that sometimes we show a surprising cosmopolitan side to newcomers and outsiders. Someone's Mercedes breaks down off Highway 101 and not only are they charmed to find a German-trained mechanic, but while they wait a bowl of mussels and fine syrah at a nearby bistro. And they thought we were all 'burbs and boonies. When we were just plain Sonoma County, before we became Wine Country, we had a rough-around-the-edges image. We were this pleasant, pretty spot that grew out of an agricultural center, a good place to live and raise kids, see the stars and smell mostly sweet air. But if you wanted anything extra, like Thai food or a unique piece of assemblage art, you'd better head for a place with bigger lights. Then we became an attraction, a large puddle of grape juice on the tourist-destination map, and suddenly marketers said we were hot. It was a simple makeover, like Chuck becoming Che, getting contact lenses and wearing black. We had a new image. The artists and chefs were already here, but now they had a bigger stage and spotlight. The wine snobs and the foodies arrived and were delighted to find other ways to spend their money, on kitchen boutiques, exciting original art and Shakespeare in the park. Imagine such signs of civilized life outside a major city. Perhaps this new image will make people feel better about leaving the city to raise their kids and having old friends tease them about living in the sticks. People like having their choices validated. They don't have to worry about being made fun of by David Letterman. Maybe an area becomes rural chic when your growers become known as specialty farmers, producing such things as gourmet mushrooms, and your dairy people are called artisan cheese makers. Rural chic sounds like a step up from country chic, which has more to do with heart-shaped pillows and duck motifs. I think you become chic when people who consider themselves chic declare you interesting and up to their snob level. Better, I think we're a combination of what's hip and what's real. Main Streets with things you crave and things you need. Feed supply houses and California-French cafes within a block of each other. Barn sales and wine tasting on the weekend. For me it's a satisfying mix of what you get for free and the treats that money can buy. Rooster noises and brie on toast with roasted tomatoes and soy milk for your coffee. Free jazz in the park, a world-class tenor at the arts center. I like the smart touches that let the world know this ain't no backwater _ bread shops with award-winning pesto twists and the couple in matching motorcycle gear buying shoes to be shipped to Beverly Hills. But the rural ingredients are richer. They include locals who know the best weekend to plant tomatoes. Co-workers who bring in bags of sweet lemons and free-range eggs from their backyards. Vendors at the farmer's market who remember your name. Country people who don't believe in gates. Buying red rain boots at the hardware store. I appreciate living in a place where people are savvy enough to order the truffles risotto but plain enough to know it's just fancy rice. Chic is quirky. Rural is a keeper. (Susan Swartz is a columnist for The Press Democrat in Santa Rosa, Calif. The Press Democrat is a member of the New York Times Regional Newspaper Group.) 
