In cyberhacking, the difference between good and evil depends on what color hat you wear. Black hats are criminals. White hats look for criminals. And gray hats fall somewhere in the middle. White hat hackers are technology gurus who crack passwords and hack into Internet software -- in the name of good. They pinpoint security weaknesses in companies' software. If these guys move fast enough, system vulnerabilities can be corrected before any black hats come along. The evil black hats steal credit card numbers and identities of consumers, and distribute viruses, costing companies millions in losses. For instance, the ``Love Letter'' virus was estimated to have lost those affected between $4 billion and $10 billion. It was sent by a lone black hatter in Singapore. ``White hats are the good guys,'' emphasized Thubten Comerford, chief executive of White Hat Technologies in Denver, Colorado. Comerford guarantees that the 15 people on his payroll are white as fresh snow. He vouches that his hackers have never been arrested and in the interviewing process must disclose how they learned their computer skills. They are also required to hack into a faux network system designed by Comerford, to test their prowess. He even hires a private detective to check into each job applicant's background. Comerford says the companies who employ his white hats don't need to worry about those hats fading into shades of gray. Or worse -- turning black. But how can he and his staff be so sure his hackers will use their skills for good? ``I've had a gun on me when I've been in a bank and I didn't rob the bank,'' said Usher Lieberman, the publicist for Comerford's company. Lieberman thinks it is possible to teach hackers nefarious skills and trust that those skills will never be put to illegal use. But no matter how confident he is, the conundrum remains. Can a white hat hacker be any good if he's never dabbled in the black? Ask Ken Keller, a full-time cyber security guard at a Denver Hospital. When he's not patrolling the hospital's information systems for viruses, he's pilfering data from an online discount search engine. But he's not committing a crime. He's a white hat hacker and companies pay him to try to steal their consumers' data. Keller is one of many hackers who became a white hat after spending years as what's known as a gray hat hacker. Gray hats break into systems without stealing anything; they usually do it for the thrill or to prove to consumers that their data isn't safe at various online companies. They think of themselves as the Robin Hoods of cyberspace. After 12 years in the gray area, Keller became a white hat. But not all grays turn white. ``Reid,'' a gray hat hacker from the hacker organization called ``Cult of the Dead Cow,'' created a computer program called ``Back Orifice'' along with a fellow hacker named ``Count Zero.'' Users of their program can manipulate any Microsoft computer from a remote control. ``We thought we would be serving the community by demonstrating how easily we could write a tool that would prove how many flaws Microsoft products had,'' said Reid. Experts say it is difficult to estimate the costs of hackers to companies because what is really lost is network time. If a company -- say, Amazon.com -- takes in $600,000 an hour, its system needs to be infected with a virus for only two hours before losses reach the millions. ``We're really doing 'guesstimates' about losses,'' said Richard Power, editorial director of the Computer Security Institute in San Francisco. White Hat Technologies is trying to stop the gray and black hats by offering a summer camp that will teach hacking and ethics to teenage boys and girls. Comerford hopes for good results but admits that the White Hat Camp, due to open in 18 months, will teach kids the skills they would need to be criminals. (EDITORS: There is no charge for use of this story, but please send a tearsheet to Professor Stephen D. Isaacs, Columbia News Service, Graduate School of Journalism, Columbia University, 2950 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10027.) 
