Nearly three-quarters of the nation's 1,315 commercial TV stations missed a government-set deadline Wednesday to begin broadcasting pristine digital signals along with traditional analog signals. Houston has fared better than most markets. Five of the city's major broadcast stations _ ABC, CBS, NBC, FOX and PBS _ have transmitted digital signals for a while. And on Monday, UPN added a digital signal. That leaves WB, which expects to go digital in 60 to 90 days. The missed deadline throughout much of the country is emblematic of the rocky road toward digital television, an uncertain process beset by high costs for consumers and broadcasters, and foot-dragging by manufacturers unwilling to agree on standards. Experts say the missed deadline also dooms another government goal, that of ending the broadcast of analog signals by 2006. Five years after the first digital sets were sold, fewer than 1 percent of homes have TVs that can receive digital signals; the rest still rely on regular analog TV sets. Once 85 percent of consumers own digital televisions, analog broadcasts will be phased out and traditional sets rendered obsolete, analysts say. The National Association of Broadcasters has scoffed at the original 2006 deadline, saying 2020 or 2025 is more reasonable for enough consumers to have made the switch so that analog broadcasts can be stopped. Digital signals are capable of carrying a high-definition picture. Such pictures have five times the clarity of traditional TV pictures, carried by analog signals, and far better sound. The transfer to digital signals has gone much slower than advocates would like. And some stations broadcasting digital signals do not yet offer any high-definition shows. But all is not yet lost, said Rick Chessen, chairman of a Federal Communications Commission task force overseeing the conversion to digital television. During a discussion in Washington, D.C., on Wednesday about the present and future of digital television, Chessen noted it took color TV 22 years to reach 85 percent of homes. ``I think you have to look at some historical data and keep our heads about us,'' he said. ``I think it's way too early to throw in the towel on this. I don't think the pieces have come together yet. We're still in a startup mode.'' FCC Chairman Michael Powell unveiled a voluntary plan earlier this month to speed the transition from analog to digital television. In addition to urging the networks to provide half their prime-time lineups in high-definition, which is likely to convince more consumers to spend $1,500 or more on digital sets, Powell also wants television makers to incorporate digital tuners into the TV sets. Today most digital TV owners must buy separate tuners, for several hundred dollars, to decode digital signals for their sets, including high-definition material. The government is pressing for the adoption of digital television because, ultimately, it is better for consumers and it gave broadcasters the spectrum for that express purpose. The Powell plan is being widely welcomed by broadcasters, manufacturers and consumers, who so far blame one another for the delay. Broadcasters who have not yet begun transmitting digital signals say there simply isn't enough customer demand to justify the millions of dollars it costs to build a new tower and digital signal transmitter. They want manufacturers to make it easier for consumers to receive the signals. Manufacturers, in turn, say consumers will flock to buy digital televisions and tuners if more than a smattering of high-definition programming were available, such as NFL games. U.S. consumers, somewhat bewildered by the whole process and high cost of converting, have been slow to adopt the technology despite its marked improvement over current television. Only about one of every 25 televisions sold last year could display digital signals. ``Virtually zero percent of American consumers have chosen to meet this deadline,'' said Thomas Hazlett, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute who focuses on telecommunications policy. Aside from having most stations broadcasting digital signals, Houston consumers also have another advantage over much of the rest of the country _ digital TV buyers can pick up the digital broadcast signals via Time Warner Cable, which allows them to avoid purchasing digital tuners. There's another catch, however. Just receiving digital signals doesn't give viewers the super-clear high-definition material that likely motivated them to purchase the televisions. They must rely on the networks to provide high-definition programs, which the local stations then can pass-through to customers. Only CBS, and to a lesser extent ABC, have been sending their stations a large amount of high-definition programming. Without the programming, the local stations broadcast digital signals of analog material, which looks only marginally better than traditional TV. ``We need more content to make this work,'' Chessen said. ``A lot of the stations are providing upconverted analog content. In my mind, that's not enough to drive sales of new products.'' It will likely take government prodding, either for manufacturers to lower prices and include tuners in sets, or forcing broadcasters to go all high-definition, before digital television catches on, said Tom Ehlmann, general manager of WB 39. Networks already have helped their local affiliates pay for upgrades to digital towers and transmitters, so it might be hard for them to now spend more to produce or buy high-definition shows. XXX END OF STORY 
