Groucho Marx got laughs in the 1950s by asking his most hapless quiz show contestants, ``Who's buried in Grant's Tomb?'' Seventy years after his death, Grant _ the general and president who was in many ways pretty hapless himself _ had become a joke. Things change. ``Grant, not Lincoln, is the most popular man in the 19th century,'' the historian Donald L. Miller says during the ``American Experience'' portrait of Grant, beginning Sunday. May 5, on PBS and concluding on Sunday, May 12. ``No question about it. Even in death, Lincoln wasn't as popular as Ulysses Grant.'' Unless you're a historian (or history buff) yourself, you probably know little about Grant beyond his Civil War exploits. You're sure to learn a great deal about a sometimes-great man during this engrossing two-part documentary. His years before and after the war, including his two terms as president, were filled with embarrassing failures. He was lousy farmer and a worse businessman. He sometimes drank to excess and, out of the Army, often trusted the most untrustworthy people. And his political instincts were spotty at best. Yet he was largely responsible for saving the Union, perhaps twice: after successfully defeating the South in war, he tried to maintain the peace with decency. The central question about Grant, as phrased by another of the program's historians, Brooks D. Simpson, is: ``How could such an ordinary man achieve such extraordinary feats?'' Working toward an answer, the filmmakers achieve an extraordinary impact through ordinary cinematic means. They blend their eloquent talking heads and lucid narration with vintage photographs and those recreated scenes in which historical figures are represented by close-ups of hands (in this case, holding a glowing cigar or pouring a drink) or shots of bodies and buildings viewed from odd angles. Visually, the program's greatest assets are the photos of Grant himself. You keep looking into his haunted eyes. You won't find any Marxian quips in the four hours of ``Ulysses S. Grant.'' This is serious stuff. But if you bring your patience and curiosity, you'll be rewarded with a fascinating tale. The first chapter, written and directed by Adriana Bosch, covers familiar territory, concentrating on the Civil War. The young Grant went to West Point largely because his father loved the idea of educating Ulysses at government expense. Grant was a mediocre student, but he excelled as an artist, a writer and a mathematician. The Mexican War made him a soldier. He ``was good at this because he kept his head,'' Geoffrey Perret, a Grant biographer, says. ``He found the drama of war absolutely compelling.'' Still, ``the effects of war were simply appalling'' to Grant, Perret adds. ``He was horrified at bloodshed.'' He also missed his wife, Julia. This fierce fighter was a devoted husband and, later, father. Once war with the Confederacy began, Grant suffered a terrible loss at Shiloh before sticking with his strategy to lead an important victory at Vicksburg. He inspired confidence in his troops and in Lincoln, who sensed a kindred spirit in the unvarnished general. Perhaps because its story is less well known, the second installment, written and directed by Elizabeth Deane, is more fascinating. Grant reluctantly accepted the Republican nomination for president, opening himself up to ceaseless criticism from politicians of every stripe as well as a skeptical press and public. He found solace by racing his buggy through the streets of Washington and playing baseball with local boys on the Ellipse near the White House. Nearing the end of his second rocky term, he told Congress, with characteristic candor, ``Mistakes have been made, as all can see and I admit.'' More mistakes were to come in his final years on Wall Street. Finally, nearly penniless and suffering from throat cancer, he outran death to finish his memoirs, guaranteeing his family an income. For all his flaws, Grant was ``a very honorable man,'' says the historian David Bradley. ``He was a reasonable man in an unreasonable time.'' So that's who is buried in Grant's Tomb, still alongside his wife, still an American enigma. But not a joke. `AMERICAN EXPERIENCE: Ulysses S. Grant' On most PBS stations Sunday night and May 12 (check local listings) Episode 1, ``The Warrior,'' written, produced and directed by Adriana Bosch; Jon Neuburger, editor. Episode 2, ``The President,'' written, produced and directed by Elizabeth Deane; Bill Lattanzi, editor; Terry Hopkins, Buddy Squires and Boyd Estus, cinematography; David Condon and Kathy White, associate producers; music by Michael Whalen; narrated by Liev Schreiber. ``American Experience'' is a production of WGBH, Boston. 
