ARIZONA DEMS CHEER CLINTON(a) (For use by N.Y. Times News Service clients)(a) By Jon Kamman(a) c.2002 The Arizona Republic(a) Arizona Democrats cheered and their treasury swelled Tuesday as the man who led the nation for eight years, but misled his personal life, came to Phoenix. Former President Clinton proved that he still holds celebrity status and wallet-opening power in the state he carried in 1996, the first Democratic presidential candidate to do so in 48 years. Nearly 700 party faithful paid $35 to $50 each to hear Clinton speak for 10 minutes. Then they swarmed him for 40 minutes in an evening rally at Phoenix Civic Plaza. To a raucous welcome, Clinton responded, ``I was just about to get over this, and you spoil me again.'' Afterward, Clinton headed across the street to the Hyatt Regency, where a wealthier crowd of more than 600 dined with him for $500 to $50,000 a plate. One Republican also was afloat in the sea of Democrats: former Gov. Fife Symington, who shares public-image problems with Clinton. The two saved each other's lives, in a manner of speaking. In their college days, Symington rowed out to pull a floundering Clinton from a riptide off Hyannis Port, Mass. More than three decades later, at the end of his presidency, Clinton granted a pardon freeing Symington from a second trial on fraud charges. Symington had been convicted and forced from office in connection with his development business before he became governor, but the conviction was overturned. Symington said this was his first chance to say thanks in person, even if surrounded by Democrats. ``I have a grateful heart, and I'm beyond worrying about all that now,'' he said. Although Clinton has made appearances at fund-raisers for national Democratic committees since leaving office, his Phoenix appearance was a relatively rare venture into state-level glad-handing. ``I don't know what the fascination is with a disgraced former president,'' Bob Fannin, chairman of the Arizona GOP, said earlier in the day. ``This would be like Republicans bringing in Richard Nixon right after Watergate.'' But the adoring crowd at the rally seemed to have forgiven him for letting a sex scandal and untruths send his presidency into impeachment. Stephanie Putnam, 21, of Tempe, rated him an excellent president who ``could have done a lot more for the country if he hadn't been weighted down'' by the Monica Lewinsky scandal. ``I'm not a defender on that,'' Phoenix attorney Marian Yim said, ``but he's an important public figure who made good progress in the area of civil rights.'' Democratic candidates are torn on seeking Clinton's help. Al Gore kept Clinton at arm's length in his 2000 presidential campaign and lost. Now, various Clinton administration sidekicks seeking election themselves fear that embracing their former boss could cause them to lose, too. Fred DuVal, a former White House staffer who is running for Congress in Arizona's new rural District 1, did not return calls seeking comment on the pros and cons of Clinton backing. Former Labor Secretary Robert Reich, running for governor in Massachusetts, has called Clinton ``utterly disgraced.'' Former Chief of Staff Erskine Bowles, running for the U.S. Senate in North Carolina, scarcely mentions the president he served. In contrast, the campaign of Florida gubernatorial candidate Janet Reno, the former U.S. attorney general, has said it would welcome Clinton's help. And former aide Rahm Emanuel, running for Congress in Chicago, won his primary after a Clinton fund-raiser. 
