Editors, in addition to those stories listed on the AM-NYT-BUDGET, AM-ADD-NYT-BUDGET, BC-PAGE1-CONSIDER, BC-EARLY-FRONTPAGE and BC-FINFRONTS, these stories will also move on The New York Times News Service wire for Thursday, May 2. The New York Times News Service night supervisor is Pat Ryan; phone: 888-346-9867; e-mail: patryan(at)nytimes.com. 	INTERNATIONAL 	(Will move in the ``i'' news file.) 	IRAQ-U.N. (United Nations) _ Officials of Iraq and the United Nations began a second round of talks today on resuming international arms inspections in Iraq, but few diplomats believed that they would resolve the three-year stalemate over the issue. By Serge Schmemann. 	BRITAIN-WORK (London) _ Britain is suffering from a string of myths about the world of work, a survey from the Economic and Social Research Council shows. Contrary to popular belief, people are staying in their jobs longer. But what has changed is a big growth in dissatisfaction _ notably over long hours and the intensity of work demanded. By Suzanne Kapner. 	RESORT-SHIP (Aboard The World, Santa Cruz de Tenerife) _ Do not call The World a cruise ship. It is, in the crew-members' refrain, a resort. A 644-foot, twin-engined, floating resort, all rooms with sea view, that the seriously rich can call home. Citizens of The World are divided into residents, who have bought an apartment (there are 110, and two-beds start at a little over $2.3 million), and guests, who have rented a week or two in one of the 88 suites, where the bathrooms have glass walls to maximize that view. By Emma Daly. 	WASHINGTON 	(Will move in the ``w'' news file.) 	INS-DEPORT (Washington) _ In the wake of Sept. 11, the INS is trying to track down 314,000 illegal immigrants ordered deported who haven't left the country. But the White House Office and Management and Budget has refused the agency's request for $52 million in the supplemental budget to hire more people to type the names of the absconders into a national law enforcement data base. By Eric Schmitt. 	DEBT-LIMIT (Washington) _ The Treasury Department says that lower than expected tax revenues mean the federal government will breach its debt limit within weeks, which is months earlier than previously forecast, putting pressure on Congress to raise the limit quickly. By Richard W. Stevenson. 	COMPUTER-PORN (Washington) _ Attacking a recent Supreme Court decision as ``a dangerous window of opportunity for child abusers,'' Attorney General John Ashcroft pushed on Wednesday for new legislation that would ban computer-simulated pornography and withstand judicial scrutiny. By David Stout. 	Story has moved. 	(Editors: All clients receive all budgets, but only full-service clients receive all stories. Please check your level of service to determine which stories you will receive.) 
