Fueled by such hits as Universal's top-selling ``Fast and the Furious'' and an unrated version of ``American Pie 2,'' shipments of DVD movies and music videos jumped a phenomenal 74 percent during the first three months of 2002 compared with sales a year ago, according to figures released Tuesday by the DVD Entertainment Group, an industry trade association. More than 120 million DVDs were shipped to retailers during the first quarter, a continuation of the explosive momentum the DVD, or digital versatile disc, industry has enjoyed since last year. A key to this growth is the fact that shipments of DVD players climbed to 3.6 million, up 29 percent from last year's first quarter. According to figures based on retail and manufacturer data, nearly 35 million DVD players are now installed in U.S. homes, with nearly 8 million homes having more than one DVD player operating. ``We continue to see families and younger audiences embrace DVD as their home entertainment medium of choice,'' said Bob Chapek, president of DVD Entertainment Group and president of Disney's Buena Vista Home Entertainment. ``The popularity of video game systems compatible with DVD has also allowed for DVD playback capability inside of kids' rooms, leading to even more software growth potential.'' There are more than 125 DVD player models now being marketed under 50 different consumer brands. The DVD Entertainment Group estimates that approximately 20 million DVD players will be shipped to retailers this year. In the area of DVD software sales, Warner Bros.' ``Training Day'' landed in third place for the quarter, behind the two Universal releases. The film opened to strong numbers on home video even before Denzel Washington won a best actor Academy Award for his performance in the drama, according to rankings provided by VideoScan. The surge in sales comes as approximately 100 new DVD titles are being released each week. Since the inception of the DVD format in 1997, more than 790 million DVDs have been shipped to retailers. ``We're definitely seeing the tip of the iceberg,'' said Amy Jo Donner, executive director of DVD Entertainment Group. ``Traditionally, the first quarter is a slowdown period and yet DVD was ahead of other home entertainment categories in terms of growth for the quarter.'' Disney has been well represented in the DVD software field so far this year, with three titles in the top 10 including ``Atlantis: The Lost Empire'' and ``Cinderella 2: Dreams Come True'' in fourth and fifth places, respectively. The Cinderella sequel was the latest in a direct-to-video strategy capitalized on handsomely by Disney in recent years. Disney's ``Pearl Harbor'' was the seventh-biggest seller of the quarter, continuing the strong home video sales it enjoyed during the last quarter of 2001, according to VideoScan. Other top VideoScan 10 DVDs for the quarter were: the Steven Spielberg-directed ``A.I. Artificial Intelligence'' in sixth place; the animated smash ``Shrek,'' which has sold strongly since its release in early November (eighth place); and 20th Century Fox's ``Kiss of the Dragon'' in ninth place. Rounding out the top 10 was Columbia Picture's special edition of ``The One.'' ``As we go through the year and we have bigger releases of popular movies and videos, we'll continue to see spikes in sales both in DVD hardware and software,'' Donner said. 
