WORLD NEWS IN BRIEF  c.2002 New York Times News Service 	ASIA 	INDONESIA: TRYING FOR A FRESH START 	In an effort to secure good relations with Indonesia, the president-elect of East Timor, Jose Alexandre Gusmao, visited President Megawati Sukarnoputri to invite her to the tiny nation's independence celebration on May 20. East Timor voted nearly three years ago to break from Indonesia, which ruled the former Portuguese colony after invading it in 1975. Megawati's aides have said she will attend despite the objections of some military officers and veterans. The military opposed independence and several officers are being tried on charges stemming from violence at the time of the vote. 	AMERICAS 	MEXICO: MORE CHANCES FOR WOMEN 	Congress has approved a bill aimed at increasing the number of women in Congress. Under the bill at least 30 percent of all candidates for Congress must be women, who currently hold about 17 percent of the seats. If signed by President Vicente Fox, the bill would disqualify parties from elections if they fail to comply. Parties that hold open primaries to choose candidates would be exempt from the quota. 	AFRICA 	MOZAMBIQUE: TRIAL IN JOURNALIST'S KILLING 	The Supreme Court has decided that there is enough evidence to try the six men accused of killing the country's best-known journalist, Carlos Cardoso, the state news agency reported. Cardoso was investigating accusations of corruption in the banking sector when he was killed in November 2000. A trial date has not yet been set for the six men, who include a former bank manager and a prominent businessman. 	EUROPE 	MOLDOVA: OPPOSITION, COMMUNISTS COMPROMISE 	Opposition-led protests against the Communist government ended after the Council of Europe brokered a compromise. Nationalist politicians who favor closer ties with Romania had led rallies in Chisinau, the capital, since January, first to protest a government plan to force students to study Russian, then to demand the resignation of President Vladimir Voronin and other officials. Under the compromise, the Communists agreed not to prosecute the protesters and to suspend their plans to promote Russian; the opposition agreed to end demands for the government's resignation. 
