Venice this is not. After every rainfall, a flotilla of human waste flows into Brooklyn's Gowanus Canal, merging with a fetid stew of used condoms, foam cups, rusted shopping carts and several decades of contaminated sludge Most people would be disgusted. But Owen Foote sees a prime spot to launch his canoe. ``The flat water and no wake are perfect,'' said the co-founder of the Gowanus Dredgers, a tough band of paddlers who have been braving Brooklyn's murky waters for the past three years. The busiest canal in the nation at the turn of the 20th century, the 50-foot-wide Gowanus was forgotten like trash after industrial traffic migrated from water to expressways after World War II. The canal decayed into a veritable cesspool -- with occasional dead bodies spotted floating on its surface -- when its flushing mechanism broke in 1961 after a manhole cover got stuck in the enormous propeller that used to churn the filthy water out to sea. Long before its industrial peak and decline, the two-mile stretch of water was home to Brooklyn's first export business: pickled oysters. Dutch colonists used to ship the shellfish -- which reputedly grew to the size of dinner plates -- back to Europe in the mid-1600s. Those glory days are clearly gone. Foote said that most landlubbers think he is ``insane'' for boating in the Gowanus -- not because it is polluted but because New Yorkers are generally park people who shun water sports. ``The reaction I usually get is, 'Why would anyone want to be canoeing in New York City?''' he said. ``New Yorkers are so disconnected from the waterfront. We don't even think we live on an island.'' A native New Yorker who spent eight summers paddling the waters of the pristine Adirondacks upstate, Foote sailed his maiden Brooklyn voyage three years ago, after the city fixed the canal's neglected flushing station. Once the mechanism was revived, Foote and 10 other canoeists formed the Gowanus Dredgers club to reclaim the rancid waters. Its season runs from the March to October, and the paddlers take turns in the group's two canoes that, when unused, are kept chained up like bicycles at the water's edge. The only protective gear they wear to shield themselves from the waters are lifejackets. ``No one has ever fallen in,'' Foote said. ``Though one member got wet.'' An urban planner, Foote hopes to convince the city to redirect the sewage into waste treatment facilities or storage containers. The next step would be dredging the canal's contaminated muck. The Gowanus was last dredged in 1998, when 2,000 tons of contaminated sludge -- which can be recycled into ceramic to make bathroom tiles -- was scraped from its bottom. But a repeat would be in vain without ending the dumping of sewage into the canal, Foote said. ``Why would you clean up a street if you're going to continue to dump?'' Foote said. While out on their jaunts, the canoeists keep watch over an expanding ecosystem of fish and fowl that have been proliferating since the flushing station reopened. Joining the tiny killifish that never left, blue crawler and fiddler crabs were the first to creep back to the canal. Mussels, striped bass, herring, egrets and ducks followed soon after. Even a few harbor seals have ventured into the Gowanus looking for a good meal. Hoping to foster an oyster comeback, the Gowanus Dredgers and a group of environmentalists reintroduced that shellfish into the canal five years ago. Of the first batch of 40 oyster seedlings that the volunteers submerged into the canal inside a protective mesh bag, only one survived. Foote presumes the others died a natural death, were vandalized, or were attacked by rats. ``It's seen quite a bit of abuse,'' Foote said about the survivor. The next oyster colony has fared far better. Two years ago, another 40 seedlings were plopped in the water and have reproduced into 150 oysters. The guardians check up on the shellfish periodically to take their measurements. Canada native and lifelong paddler Tim Vetter was quite surprised when he discovered the Gowanus two years ago and learned he could canoe in Brooklyn. Accustomed to boating in waters like Lake Ontario and the Chesapeake Bay, Vetter, 39, was undaunted about taking on the Gowanus. ``The romance of canoeing in this post-apocalyptic urban setting outweighed any trepidation about going in,'' he said. Vetter, a software development manager, said he especially enjoys taking four-hour trips, during which he packs a picnic lunch and journeys several miles to the Brooklyn Bridge or the abandoned docks in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, where he beholds a panoramic Manhattan view. ``Most people see ugliness,'' Vetter said about the dilapidated warehouses and cement factories that line the banks of the canal. ``But there are fragments of incredible beauty everywhere.'' Vetter's favorite spot is a narrow basin that shoots off the eastern side of the canal where a sunken barge pokes out of the 10-foot-deep waters. Though Vetter revels in the beauty of the putrid canal, he concedes its stench can't always be ignored. ``You kind of have to hold your nose going in,'' he said. (EDITORS: There is no charge for use of this story, but please send a tearsheet to Professor Stephen D. Isaacs, Columbia News Service, Graduate School of Journalism, Columbia University, 2950 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10027.) 
