By 11 a.m. on Saturdays, many well-rested and recharged people are just climbing out of bed. I, on the other hand, am just climbing back in. I have been awake since 6 o'clock in the morning, tearing around town like someone privy to inside information about the Armageddon. After running myself into an exhausted heap, I desperately need a nap. Which is the whole point. For me, a two-hour nap after a whirlwind of activities is infinitely sweeter than simply sleeping in. Just to be clear, I should state that I am not a morning person. The idea of setting an alarm on a weekend seems to violate a basic tenet of human decency. But I am single-minded in my focus on the nap, so I begin a series of activities that will guarantee my needing one. My typical Saturday morning adheres to a basic pattern: my alarm rings. Loudly. I then start to think seriously about abandoning the plan to run myself into an exhausted heap and consider hitting the snooze button until Monday morning. Instead, I pour coffee down my gullet as if I am filling my tank for the NASCAR speedway. It seems wrong. I should be relaxing, not revving up my brain waves. But I do it anyway. I read the newspaper, open a week's worth of mail and take out the recycling. Now I am ready to face the outside world. I go to the dry cleaner, mentally vowing to wear only machine-washable clothing from now on so that I can sleep an extra seven minutes the following Saturday. I hit the supermarket, where they are waxing the floors and restocking the shelves. But at least there are no shoppers tendering ragged coupons in the line ahead of me. I have the run of the store and my pick of checkout lines. I'm starting to feel a bit of glee. The midpoint of the morning is a spinning class at 9 where I can cycle, sweat and shower all before 10. That leaves me an hour to get to the bank and stock up on produce at the farmers' market before heading home and back to bed. Granted, this whole schedule is self-inflicted. Sure, there are other exercise classes at alternate times. Of course I can do my grocery shopping in the middle of the day. No, it was not easy to find a dry cleaner that opens before 8 a.m. on Saturdays. It all begs the question: Why not just sleep late? Sleeping late would be fine if I were a different person with a different disposition, or perhaps if I were born under another planetary sign or, for that matter, on another planet. I function according to a kind of denial-reward mentality that requires me to earn that two-hour nap by tackling half a day's worth of activities before most relaxed weekenders have finished their first cup of decaffeinated coffee. It has always seemed like an indulgence to sleep late behind blackout curtains when the sun is shining and the day is calling. I have tried it. The result was a slightly groggier version of myself fighting my way with everyone else to squeeze the last honeydew at the farmers' market, or snag the last parking spot at the post office, only to stand in a long line. I never seemed to be able to accomplish as much in an entire day as I could by just dangling the nap carrot. The two-hour nap also leaves me with enough hours left in the day to do whatever I want. If I accomplish more errands, it is all gravy, and if I spend the rest of the day with a magazine, I'm not concerned about wasting the day. If all goes according to plan, I am home just before 11 a.m. with my dry cleaning and my bags of groceries. I arrange any fruit I have bought at the farmers' market in a decorative bowl and painstakingly cut the bottoms from flower stems and put the blooms in a vase. I am back in bed by 11:05. Boy, do I deserve it. The nap itself is free of fanfare. I don't change into pajamas. I don't turn off the phone ringers. I don't even bother to set an alarm. So what if I exceed my estimated two hours? It is Saturday, after all, and I have worked hard all week. I figure I should be allowed to sleep in. 
