Gov. James McGreevey said Thursday that he would give up his proposal to tax commuters from Pennsylvania. The plan was strongly opposed by legislators, including some in his own party, because Pennsylvania then could similarly start taxing commuters from New Jersey. To replace the revenue he anticipated from the proposal, McGreevey said, the state will improve the collection of taxes on income from unincorporated businesses, like law firms and real estate partnerships, earned by partners and shareholders who live out of state. The proposal would require the businesses to withhold partners' individual income taxes, which now go uncollected if the income is unreported. The Democratic legislators who support the plan cited estimates that the state is losing about $50 million a year that it is owed. After McGreevey lined up with South Jersey Democrats to announce the proposal at a news conference, Republicans pointed out that the idea had been discussed for weeks. They said they had expected it to be part of the $1 billion to be raised as part of the governor's revision of the corporate business tax. ``It is disingenuous to tell the public that you have found a new revenue source when it is contained within a proposal that has already been identified to fill a very different budget hole,'' state Sen. Joseph M. Kyrillos Jr., the state's Republican chairman, said in a statement. But Democrats said the new proposal was not related to the corporate tax overhaul, which will not be announced until later this month. ``It is not part of the budget as the governor proposed it,'' said Assemblyman Louis D. Greenwald, the chairman of the budget committee. McGreevey met a barrage of protest over the commuter tax plan, which would have effectively raised taxes for many New Jerseyans who work in Pennsylvania. Under a 25-year-old compact between the two states, interstate commuters now pay income taxes to the state where they live. McGreevey said taxes from Pennsylvanians working in New Jersey would have brought in $72 million a year. But if the compact were canceled, New Jerseyans working on the other side of the river would pay Pennsylvania's 2.8 percent flat tax, which is more than many lower- and middle-income New Jersey residents now pay, because the state's income tax is graduated. Those who work in Philadelphia would fare even worse, having to pay the city wage tax of almost 4 percent, which New Jersey residents can now take as a credit against their state taxes. The commuter tax was one of the more modest in the list of measures McGreevey proposed in March to close a shortfall that he estimated at more than $5 billion for fiscal 2003. But South Jersey legislators said they were stunned to see the proposal in the governor's budget and would hold up the whole budget if necessary to kill it. Among the critics were Greenwald and state Sen. Wayne R. Bryant of Camden, the Democratic chairman of the Senate Budget Committee. McGreevey initially refused to give up the plan, however, and challenged critics to come up with another that would provide as much revenue. The Democrats' plan is aimed at members of unincorporated businesses _ partnerships, limited liability partnerships, limited liability corporations and others that distribute their profits as personal income. There are about 300,000 such entities in New Jersey, said Tom Vincz, a spokesman for the state's Treasury Department. Vincz said the department was trying to determine how many individuals received income from them and how many of those were paying their required quarterly income taxes to New Jersey. Citing a recent analysis by a former Internal Revenue Service official who is an expert on partnerships, Vincz said about $1.2 billion in partnership income in New Jersey was not reported to the state every year. He said the analyst, Jerry J. Curnutt, had estimated that as a result New Jersey was losing $48 million to $50 million a year in tax revenue. About a dozen states already require the withholding of income taxes from both resident and nonresident members of partnerships and limited-liability corporations. In New Jersey, Greenwald said, ``it's been basically an honor system where people have not been living up to their responsibilities.'' He said revenue for previous years should also increase as people who have failed to pay take advantage of the state's current tax amnesty plan. 
