At the LPGA's recent ``Five Points of Celebrity'' summit, aimed at better connecting players with their fans, Nancy Lopez's speech was predictably both inspirational and emotional. And, like one of the pinpoint iron shots for which Lopez became famous, the message found its target. When she was 15, Lopez sought an autograph from a PGA Tour player. She was standing in line when the player told the man in front of her that he had no time to sign. Knowing her autograph opportunity also had vanished, the Chick-fil-A Charity Championship hostess never forgot the disappointment. ``I said if I ever became a tour player, I was never going to let anyone feel like he made me feel,'' Lopez said Thursday. ``I shared that with the players because we're all fans. We might be able to play golf better than you, but we're not better than you. And I think all professional athletes should always remember that.'' Duncan is Lopez winner Meredith Duncan of LSU, the 2001 U.S. Women's Amateur champion, officially was introduced as the winner of the third annual Nancy Lopez Award on Thursday as the nation's outstanding female amateur player. Duncan, who received a spot in the Chick-fil-A, is playing in her third professional event. She missed the cut at last year's U.S. Open, but made it at last month's Kraft Nabisco Championship, finishing 73rd. Receiving the award from Lopez, Duncan said, ``I'd like to thank Nancy for just being the classy person she is.'' Tee time vs. study time Duluth, Ga. amateur Courtney Swaim tees off at 1:50 p.m. Friday, but she could use some time to study. She has three finals at Auburn on Monday and Tuesday, and all are necessary for her to graduate in business administration. ``My grades are going to plummet,'' Swaim said as she practiced. Her next tournaments are the NCAAs, and unless she qualifies for the U.S. Open, Swaim plans to defend the Georgia Women's Open title that earned her a spot in this weekend's field. She'll turn pro in the fall and try to get her card at the qualifying school. Tschetter, Barkley out Kris Tschetter has withdrawn from the Chick-fil-A field, ruining what could have been an interesting pairing. Her scheduled caddie was supposed to have been good friend Charles Barkley. Tschetter was replacedby Laurie Rinker-Graham. Etc Karrie Webb, who played a round at Augusta National on Tuesday, neatly dodged the issue of whether women should be allowed as club members there. ``Actually, a lot of women were playing,'' Webb said. ``There was a foursome of women in front of us. I was surprised at how many women were actually out there playing.'' . . . Arguably, the hottest player in women's golf is not even in Stockbridge. That would be Arizona's Lorena Ochoa, who won seven straight college events. She finished eighth at last month's Kraft Nabisco Championship. . . . Who's the player most likely to make an ace this week at Eagle's Landing? Don't bet against Lorie Kane, who had an ace in the Nabisco pro-am, another in the third round and lipped out a potential third. . . . Eagle's Landing is drying out after two breezy days but still playing rather long, with thickened rough, after rains earlier in the week.Glenn Sheeley writes for The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. E-mail: gsheeley(at)ajc.com Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
