Some of the pessimists on Wall Street are calling it biowreck. Since the start of the year, biotechnology stocks have plunged. While the market as a whole has meandered, broad biotech indexes are down about 30 percent. The American Stock Exchange Biotechnology Index Tuesday gained 16.74 to close at 436.49, leaving it down 23 percent since Jan. 1. Since reaching a high of 618 on Nov. 26, it has declined a whopping 29 percent. Tuesday's casualty: Icos Corp. of Bothell, Wash. Icos is developing an impotence drug to compete with Viagra that will be manufactured and marketed by Eli Lilly &AMP; Co. The US Food and Drug Administration Tuesday said the drug, called Cialis, is ``approvable,'' but it wants more studies and possible improvements to manufacturing facilities. Icos shares shed 34 percent of their value, closing down $13.24 at $25.76. Since March 21, Icos shares have lost 50 percent of their value. Lilly, which had to cut its profit forecasts for 2002 and 2003 because Cialis's introduction will be delayed, got dragged down, too. Its shares lost $2.65 to close at $65.65, a drop of 3.9 percent. Icos was just the latest in a series of spectacular nose dives. Since last fall, it seems as if most highly anticipated drugs have been rejected or delayed by the FDA. ``It's really been a brutal run for biotech,'' said Peter Di Teresa, senior analyst at Morningstar Inc., the big mutual-fund rating group. ``Health care broadly has suffered, but biotechnology funds have just been wailed on. Most are down 30 percent or more this year.'' For instance, the Fidelity Select Biotech fund, with $2.4 billion in assets, was down 30.6 percent for the year as of Monday, according to Morningstar. Genomicsfund.com, with about $14 million in assets, is down 40 percent over the same period. ``We're kind of surprised there's been so much valuation compression,'' said Sam Isaly, portfolio manager of the Eaton Vance Worldwide Health Sciences fund. ``You do have 20 companies in the sector making money, and their profit gain was in the expected range. But right now it's just fears dominating hopes.'' ``This should be the good period for the industry,'' said Linda Miller, manager of the John Hancock Biotech fund, noting that many medical associations hold their conferences in the spring, usually providing a forum for biotech companies to announce favorable clinical results. But instead of digesting promising announcements, Miller has to explain why her fund is down about 30 percent for the year. ``It's been a very ugly performance,'' she said. The string of disappointments seemed to begin when ImClone Systems Inc. of New York disclosed in late December that the FDA declined to even consider its proposed cancer drug, Erbitux. Until then, investors had anticipated approval for Erbitux and a big influx of revenues for ImClone and its big pharma partner, Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. Instead, the partners engaged in a nasty squabble as government agencies launched a handful of inquiries into whether investors had been misled. Locally, Sepracor Inc. of Marlborough had its allergy drug candidate, Soltara, rejected by the FDA in March. Its stock lost more than half its its value in one day, and has continued to decline since then. Tuesday it closed at $12.66, about a fifth of its value in late December. The company Tuesday said it has laid off 10 percent of its work force since the drug was rejected. In January, shares of Cubist Pharmaceuticals Inc. of Lexington plunged 46 percent when the company announced disappointing results from a trial for its antibiotic Cidecin. The results are likely to delay Cidecin's introduction. What's different from previous biotech slumps, analysts said, is that the bad news seems to be affecting all of the players, regardless if they are directly impacted. Miller said it's fallout from ImClone. ``ImClone muddied everybody in the sector,'' she said. ``It put into question how much we can believe about data that's been presented, and how much we can believe about big companies validating the deals. Bristol-Myers was out saying this was a billion-dollar product. There's no smart money.'' The biggest problem, many in the industry said, is the FDA. The agency hasn't had a commissioner for more than a year, and President Bush has yet to name a candidate. Meantime, the agency seems to have gotten more conservative. Even when drugs are deemed ``approvable,'' such as Icos's Cialis, they are asking for additional studies to document safety and effectiveness. ``The FDA has definitely gotten more difficult,'' said Eric Schmidt, an analyst with S.G. Cowen Securities. ``The FDA is holding companies to a higher standard in terms of safety. Our consultants tell us in part it's because Congress has asked the agency to be more safety conscious.'' Meantime, the additional studies delay drug introductions. That spooks investors: They value biotech companies as a discounted stream of future earnings. Push the earnings further out, and the present value drops precipitously. ``People are saying, `I can't pay a price that's equal to five times peak sales,' '' when it's unclear whether the product will even be approved, said Erick Lucera, senior vice president of Independence Investments LLC, an affiliate of John Hancock Financial Services Inc. ``We're not invested at all in biotech, and I don't see a reason to get involved yet. Investors are looking for signs the FDA is going to approve some products.'' For now, investors seem focused on a May 23 meeting at which Biogen Inc. of Cambridge will present information on its psoriasis drug candidate, Amevive, to a panel of specialists convened by the FDA. The panel will issue a recommendation to the FDA that could have a big impact on its decision to approve the drug. The drug is crucial for Biogen, which reached $1 billion in sales last year largely on sales of its Avonex treatment for multiple sclerosis. But Avonex faces new competition from other drugs this year, and investors want to see whether Biogen can successfully roll out additional products. Beyond its importance to Biogen, however, the meeting is widely anticipated as an indication of where the FDA is heading. ``It's like the Greenspan watch,'' said Di Teresa of Morningstar, referring to the Fed chairman and how the markets hang on his every public pronouncement. ``It's not just what happens to Biogen, but what the panel's response indicates about future approvals.'' Jeffrey Krasner can be reached at krasner(at)globe.com. 
