Just three hours before he was to be executed for a gruesome 1995 killing spree in Fort Worth, career criminal Curtis Moore won a reprieve from the U.S. Supreme Court when questions were raised concerning the condemned man's mental capacity. ``We think we can show that Curtis is mentally retarded, and all we want is an opportunity to prove it,'' said Austin lawyer Alex Calhoun, who is representing Moore through the final appeals process. Moore, 34, was scheduled to die for his role in a drug ripoff scheme that ended with three dead and a fourth victim shot and severely burned. Killed were Henry Truevillian Jr., 20; Roderick Moore, 24, who was not related to the defendant; and LaTanya DeShae Boone, 21. Moore was described by prosecutors as a heartless killer who had attempted to lay blame for his actions on his 17-year-old nephew. The high court's decision to halt the execution surprised prosecutors, who pointed out that Moore had never claimed any mental deficiency during his trial. ``We're surprised only because of the procedural posture,'' Chip Wilkinson of the appeals section of the Tarrant County district attorney's office told The Associated Press. ``It was an unusual procedural posture and the court went ahead and stayed it anyway.'' According to court records and news accounts from the time, the Nov. 30, 1995, killings capped a bizarre series of events that started as a routine drug deal. Curtis Moore and his nephew, Anthony ``Kojak'' Moore, 17, met with Truevillian, Roderick Moore and Darrell Hoyle at a home in east Fort Worth to make a transaction involving cocaine. Once inside, Curtis Moore brandished a gun while he and his nephew took money from the other men. Then Curtis Moore and his nephew tied the three men's hands, forcing Hoyle and Truevillian into the trunk of a car and Roderick Moore into the vehicle's back seat. Curtis Moore then drove the vehicle to Boone's home. Hoyle would later tell police that he heard a shot while the car was stopped at the home. The car was then taken to a secluded area west of Lake Arlington in east Fort Worth. Curtis Moore opened the trunk and pumped bullets into Hoyle and Truevillian before soaking both with gasoline and setting them afire. Hoyle managed to kick open the trunk and pull Roderick Moore out with him. With his clothes on fire, Hoyle fled into the woods while Curtis Moore gave chase. Hoyle collapsed to the ground and played dead just before Curtis Moore caught up with him. The ploy apparently worked, and Curtis Moore fled from the area as firetrucks approached. Truevillian died later of multiple gunshot wounds in the chest and abdomen, burns and smoke inhalation, authorities said. The bodies of Roderick Moore and Boone were found dumped along the road in the 4900 block of David Strickland Road, about a mile from the crime scene on Wilbarger Street, police said. Boone died of multiple gunshots wounds in the head and neck. Roderick Moore, whose hands were bound behind his back, died of a single gunshot wound in the head. Anthony Moore, now 23, is serving two life sentences for his role in the slayings. On Wednesday, Curtis Moore was taken from Death Row at the prison system's Polunsky Unit in Livingston to a holding cell a few feet from the death chamber at the Walls Unit in Huntsville, 45 miles away. A stay was granted about three hours before the 6 p.m. scheduled execution, and prison officials whisked Moore back to Death Row. He did not request a final meal and did not have anyone scheduled to witness the execution on his behalf. However, Hoyle and several of the murder victims' families had made arrangements to witness the execution. The petition that led to the sparing of Moore's life was filed to Justice Antonin Scalia, who referred it to the entire court. Moore's lawyers said in written arguments that the high court should hold up the execution until the court could decide a pending Virginia case questioning the constitutionality of executing the mentally retarded. Moore's IQ has been measured at 68 and 76. Experts say that someone with an IQ of 65 to 70 is considered mentally retarded. The reprieve will remain in effect indefinitely until the court decides whether to review Moore's case. If the court refuses to review the case, the reprieve automatically is canceled and a new execution date will be set. A decision in the Virginia case is expected before July. Moore would have been the second Texas inmate to die in as many days and the 11th this year. At least seven other Texas inmates are scheduled to die by injection this month. Before being condemned for the Fort Worth killings, Moore had an extensive juvenile record and had spent time in the adult prison system. In 1985, he received six years for robbery but was released nine months later. He was convicted three more times over the next 10 years and each time was paroled after short stays in prison. (Visit the Star-Telegram's online services on the World Wide Web: www.star-telegram.com) nn 
