This year's Indianapolis 500 promises to be one of the most competitive in recent memory. Top drivers from the Indy Racing League and CART will converge on the Brickyard for the 86th running of the Indy 500 on May 26. Of those drivers, three unlikely candidates have emerged as contenders to drink from the milk bottle at the end of the race: Sam Hornish Jr., the defending IRL champ, might not be considered an underdog in any other IRL event but this one. With drivers such as Kenny Brack, Paul Tracy and Jimmy Vasser from CART entered in this year's Indy 500, the talent pool is much deeper than any IRL race. Plus, with the addition of the Penske drivers Gil de Ferran and defending Indy 500 champ Helio Castroneves, CART defectors who are competing for the first time exclusively in the IRL, Hornish's challenge becomes all the greater. To Hornish's credit, he has won two IRL races this year, including the series' first-ever race at California Speedway in March. The Yamaha Indy 400 at California Speedway was described as a final Indy 500 tuneup by some, but at best it was a confidence builder for those drivers who finished well. That included de Ferran and Vasser. Scott Sharp, another IRL regular, reaped the benefits of a rare Penske gamble that didn't pay off and won at Nazareth Speedway on April 21. De Ferran and team owner Roger Penske rolled the dice on fuel and ran out on the last lap, allowing Sharp to take the lead and win his first race of the season. Sharp, an open-wheel veteran who won the pole at last year's Indy 500, probably will seek redemption. He didn't complete a lap, spinning, crashing and officially finishing last. The third driver comes from the CART series, which had drivers take the top six spots in last year's Indy 500. Bruno Junqueira, the Brazilian driver of the No. 4 Target Chip Ganassi Racing Toyota-powered Champ car, is coming off a victory last weekend at Twin Ring Motegi in Japan, his first oval victory in his two seasons of CART racing. ``I think it was a very good race to win, this race at Motegi,'' Junqueira said. ``First, because I think it was one of the most important CART races of the year; it was really important for Toyota to win that race. And that's the last race, and it's an oval race before Indianapolis. That's going to boost up the team, Target and myself for this month of May. I think that's going to give me a lot of confidence for this race.'' Junqueira quietly has emerged as one of the top drivers in CART. He is in the top five in points, better than his teammate Brack, who has an IRL and Indianapolis 500 championship on his resume. But Junqueira was almost a Ganassi afterthought in last year's Indy 500. Ganassi first had only two drivers, Vasser and Tony Stewart, try to qualify cars in the Indy 500 last year. When both of those drivers were securely in the race, Ganassi decided to let his CART series regular drivers, Junqueira and Nicolas Minassian, try to qualify. Junqueira had one of the day's better races considering he went from a 20th starting position to finishing fifth. Only Michael Andretti had better improvement through the race, going from 21st to third. Unlike last year, Junqueira will be expected to perform. He and Brack are Ganassi's primary drivers and will be pressed to exceed the results of last year, when Ganassi drivers finished fourth, fifth and sixth. ``I don't care about pressure,'' Junqueira said, ``but this put pressure on me because I see it as a close race and everything that I did was a bonus. But this year, yes, I'm going to pressure myself because I want to work hard this whole month and I want to work hard and get the win. ``Last year, I really just came and sat in the car and drove four laps and qualified, and after, I went to the race. I was really happy to finish fifth without working that hard, but now I want to work hard, but I want to get the better result than last year.'' Junqueira sounds like a hungry driver coming off his best race of the season. That could make for an unbeatable combination come race day. 
