They made it look easy, their 8-0 win over the suddenly hapless Cleveland Indians, completing a three-game sweep and extending their winning streak to seven games. But the Anaheim Angels aren't about to gloat. ``Easy?'' Angels manager Mike Scioscia said. ``I don't look at it as easy at all. The game was a nip-and-tuck game. There was nothing easy about it.'' It only looks easy when a team plays as well as the Angels did Thursday night at Jacobs Field, and as well as it has played since losing to the Mariners on April 23. Since then, the Angels have outscored their opponents 69-19, putting together their longest winning streak since winning nine in a row May 31-June 9, 1998. In the three-game sweep, the Angels outscored the Indians 36-4. Everything was working. Starting pitcher Kevin Appier threw six scoreless innings, improving to 3-1 and earning his 150th career victory. Three relievers followed Appier to complete the Angels' second shutout of the season. The Angels had 15 hits, including at least one by everyone who batted. David Eckstein and Troy Glaus each had three hits, and Darin Erstad and Bengie Molina each had two. Tim Salmon hit a three-run home run, the 250th of his career. The defense made sparkling plays at key moments. Glaus backhanded a grounder and started a double play in the fourth inning, and Erstad made a sliding catch in center field with runners on second and third in the seventh. Even Julio Ramirez, who arrived from Triple-A Salt Lake only two hours before game time, threw a bullet from right field to nail Travis Fryman, who tried to score on a single by Omar Vizquel in the fifth inning. It's difficult to imagine that this was a team that was off to its worst start in franchise history at 6-14 only 10 days ago. ``We weren't panicking, but you temper anything you do with what the situation needs,'' Scioscia said. ``They've turned it around. One thing after another has started to go the right way.'' Meanwhile, the Indians are going in the opposite direction. After starting the season 11-1, they've lost 14 of 16, including five in a row. They beat the Angels in two of three games to begin the season in Anaheim. ``The Angels are a completely different team than the one we saw to open the season,'' Indians manager Charlie Manuel said. ``They are a pretty good hitting team and they match up position by position pretty darn well. You've got to give them a lot of credit for sweeping us, even though we're not that bad. I know we're not that bad.'' Former Angels pitcher Chuck Finley (2-3) started for the Indians and held the Angels scoreless until the fourth when the Angels got five singles and scored two runs. Finley gave up another run in the sixth and was through for the night. The Angels put the game away late, getting the three-run home run by Salmon in the ninth inning. Salmon had struck out three times before hitting the homer. ``For me, it was from the outhouse to the penthouse in one swing,'' Salmon said. ``For 2{ hours I was having a miserable night, and in two seconds, it all changes.'' The Angels' turnaround might seem just as sudden. During the streak, they've averaged 9.9 runs per game while the pitchers have a 1.99 ERA. ``It's about time we chipped in,'' Erstad said of the offense. ``The pitchers have been doing it all year.'' ``Lately our offense has been incredible,'' said Appier, who was the starting pitcher in both of the Angels' shutouts. ``To come in here and do what we did against this team in this park is amazing. Everything's better -- the offense, defense and pitching.'' 
