Q: In the movies and on TV, I've heard pilots use the phrase ``five by five'' when flying aircraft. What does this mean? A: The Dictionary of the Modern United States Military explains that it's slang used by a radio operator to mean that the transmission he is receiving during a communications check of radio equipment is loud and clear. The response number dwindles as the quality of reception dwindles: for example, four by four, three by three, and so on. Lima Charlie and five-square mean the same thing as five by five. Q: What has happened to the reality TV show ``No Boundaries''? It just disappeared. Also, what about ``The Mole,'' another reality show? A: ``No Boundaries'' was yanked by WB after only four episodes. The reason (as usual): low ratings. The second installment of ``The Mole'' was scrubbed after three episodes, but is expected to be relaunched under a new title starting in June. ABC is expected to run all 13 episodes, most of which haven't yet been seen. It's a new phenomenon this season for networks to cancel reality competitions in progress, leaving viewers hanging. But, as they say: Stay tuned, because TV schedules are always in flux. Q: I saw a short item in the newspaper about a man who sued American Airlines after his wife, an Alzheimer's patient, vanished at Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport. Was she traveling alone? A: No. Margie Dabney, 70, and her husband, Joe, 63, of Bakersfield, Calif., were traveling on Dec. 5 from Indianapolis to Bakersfield with a stop at DFW. American Airlines had been asked to provide a courtesy escort at the layover. Airline officials said an assistant who handles passengers with special needs met the couple on the plane. During the layover, the Dabneys said they needed to use the restrooms. The attendant accompanied the husband and asked his wife to meet them at the gate. Airline officials said the escort may have thought he was supposed to look after only the husband, who uses a wheelchair. As of April 21, Dabney's wife hadn't been seen again. The airport's terminals and grounds were searched using dogs and heat-seeking equipment. The only lead came from a worker on a road bisecting the airport property who reported seeing a woman fitting Margie Dabney's description. Airport police dogs reportedly picked up her scent, but then it stopped, ``consistent with her getting into a car,'' said Marty Heires, a spokesman for American Airlines. A lawyer representing Joe Dabney has filed a $10 million lawsuit charging that the airline, or its agents, lost his wife. Q: An editorial column by Steven Culbertson noted that President Bush is the first president with an MBA. What other presidents have earned advanced degrees? I don't mean honorary degrees. A: The book ``Facts About the Presidents'' lists these: Woodrow Wilson, who received his law degree from the University of Virginia in 1883, and a Ph.D. from Johns Hopkins University in 1885; Richard Nixon, law degree from Duke, 1937; Gerald Ford, law degree from Yale, 1941; and Bill Clinton, law degree from Yale, 1973. Theodore Roosevelt (Columbia) and Jimmy Carter (Union College) did post-graduate study, but didn't receive advanced degrees. Clinton was a Rhodes scholar but didn't earn a degree from Oxford University. Q: Who currently gets the oil from the Alaska pipeline? Is it sold to markets overseas? A: No. There was a period between May 1996 and April 2000 when some North Slope crude oil was exported to Asia, but none has been exported to Asia or markets anywhere else in the world since then, said Chuck Logsdon of the Alaska Department of Revenue. It wouldn't be illegal to export the oil, he added, but it doesn't make economic sense to do so. All Alaska North Slope crude oil is refined in Alaska, Hawaii, California or Washington State, and is marketed on the U.S. West Coast. About 1 million barrels a day come from Alaska, providing the West Coast with about one-third of its demand. From 1973 until 1996, incidentally, companies were forbidden to export the oil from Alaska's North Slope, a condition for building the 800-mile pipeline. A West Coast crude oil glut led Congress to repeal the export ban. Between May 1996 and April 2000, when Alaskan oil was being exported to Japan, South Korea and Taiwan, the exports averaged only 72,000 barrels a day, or about 6 percent of average production, Logsdon said. Q: Are Margaret and Tucker Carlson, who appear on CNN's ``Crossfire,'' kin or married or neither? A: Neither, according to a CNN spokeswoman. Q: When I was in Florida recently, I heard about an elderly skydiver who was missing. I didn't hear anything else about it. Do you have any information? A: The body of David Hoven, a 72-year-old skydiver from Sorrento, Fla., with 1,300 previous jumps, was found April 9 in a wooded area near DeLand, Fla. His parachute apparently never opened, said Gary Davidson, a spokesman for the Volusia County Sheriff's Office. Two skydivers also using the popular Skydive DeLand died within a four-month period last year. One, a Canadian, had attempted to make a tricky high-speed turn too close to the ground, and crashed into pavement near the DeLand Municipal Airport. The other, a New York woman, died when her parachute failed. A failed parachute also caused the death of a French woman at DeLand in April 1999. Q: What has become of Muhammad Ali Jr.? A: The only son of Ali's eight children appears to avoid the limelight completely. The last interview he gave was in October 1999, when he was a 19-year-old freshman at Prairie View A&AMP;M in Texas. At that time, he said he was absolutely, positively uninterested in a boxing career. ``My dad ... didn't want me to try to follow in his footsteps,'' he said. ``And for a while, I wasn't interested in any sports. Period.'' The burden of carrying the same name as a world-famous father was more emotional than physical for Muhammad Jr. ``Sometimes people would come up and ask me, `How is it being Muhammad Ali's son?' You know what I say? I say, `How is it being yourself?' You're like everybody else, except that you have a famous father. I'm no different.'' He said the saddest memory of his childhood was when his parents broke up and he lived with his grandparents near Flossmore, Ill. ``But I learned to cope with it,'' he added. While Ali Jr. has stayed out of the spotlight, Laila Ali, a daughter of Muhammad Ali Sr. and his third wife, Veronica, has become something of a women's boxing celebrity. She won her first nine fights, including a match last June against Jacqui Frazier, daughter of her father's nemesis, Joe Frazier. Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
