Ismail Merchant's rich and absorbing film ``The Mystic Masseur'' is set in the bosom of Trinidad's Indian community in the 1940s and '50s, when that Caribbean island was still under British control. At that time, the island's sizable Indian population, descended from laborers imported to work on sugar plantations after the abolition of slavery, was just beginning to find its political voice. Despite the film's historical specificity, its portrait of the making (and unmaking) of a leader who prides himself on being a man of the people is a subtle, humorous, illuminating study of politics, power and social mobility. Its ruefully amused overview of human nature and its quirks ultimately transcend period and location. The charismatic protagonist, Ganesh Ransumair (Aasif Mandvi), ascends from schoolteacher, through a dual career as an author and masseur with spiritualist pretensions, to a seat in Parliament. His rise, which involves a fair amount of smoke and mirrors, is presented without moral judgment. Ganesh is basically a well-meaning soul with the usual human flaws. One lesson he learns (and successfully exploits) is that people are innately superstitious and prone to believe in miracles. Another is never to underestimate people's material self-interest and susceptibility to petty corruption. Based on V.S. Naipaul's first novel and directed by Merchant from a screenplay by Caryl Phillips, the film begins as Ganesh leaves the Trinidadian capital, Port of Spain, where he has been working as a schoolteacher, to return to his rural village after the death of his father. In a place where hardly anybody reads and where authorship is naively regarded as a potential avenue to enormous wealth, he is finally free to pursue his ardent desire to write books. As vaulting as Ganesh's literary ambitions may seem, the works he produces are little more than inspirational and instructional pamphlets with titles like ``101 Questions and Answers on the Hindu Religion.'' Ganesh is virtually adopted by Ramlogan (Om Puri), a canny, unscrupulous older neighbor who pushes his beautiful daughter Leela (Ayesha Dharker) to marry the aspiring author, then tries to use their wedding as a personal fund-raising opportunity. Because Ganesh's father was a masseur reputed to be a healer, it is assumed that he has inherited this talent, and Ramlogan persuades him to hang out his shingle and carry on the tradition. Ganesh's practice flourishes after he dons a white turban and robe and brings some hammy show business mumbo-jumbo to his work. The story is narrated by Partap (Jimi Mistry), whom Ganesh supposedly cures of mental illness as a boy. Partap grows up to edit The Dharma, a partisan broadside promoting Ganesh's political agenda. The movie takes an equivocal view of this possible miracle, a histrionic bit of hocus-pocus in which Ganesh expels a ``dark cloud'' hovering around the boy's head. Because Partap, even as a grown-up student at Oxford, is still a true believer, the movie suggests that what therapists nowadays criticize as ``magic thinking'' can actually work wonders when triggered by strong enough faith. The most colorful characters are the charming but incorrigibly greedy Ramlogan and the equally materialistic Leela, who temporarily deserts Ganesh when he devotes more attention to his writing than to her. In the movie's strongest performance, the great Indian actor Om Puri imbues Ramlogan with layers of slithery charm, native shrewdness and a childish self-pity that erupts when he opens Ganesh's first book and discovers it isn't dedicated to him. The movie's carefully drawn subsidiary characters include Ganesh's wizened aunt (Zohra Segal), a smart, tough old woman with a streak of common sense, and the enigmatic Stewart (James Fox), a mystically inclined British expatriate whose loathing for his homeland knows no bounds. As loftily as this likable misfit prattles on about discovering his ``spiritual rhythm,'' the movie sees him more as a casualty than as a saint. His assertions that politics are ``too ardent a stimulation of the soul'' and that people ``need to be soothed, not stimulated'' are portrayed as the daydreams of a misanthrope who confuses denial with transcendence. For all the the affection the film lavishes on its characters, it maintains a scrupulous distance that precludes strong emotional identification. From its neutral perspective, all human beings are superstitious children. On the issue of British colonial rule, however, the movie is anything but detached. Upon winning his seat in Parliament, Ganesh moves to the capital, where he finds himself an outsider cut off from his constituency and subject to the whims of smug, supercilious leaders who treat him as their lackey. Almost overnight, his power evaporates, and he becomes an impotent token figure. Underneath its cool-headed compassion, ``The Mystic Masseur'' has a hard-headed understanding of the brute realities of politics and power and is firmly on the side of the oppressed. PRODUCTION NOTES: `THE MYSTIC MASSEUR' Directed by Ismail Merchant; written by Caryl Phillips, based on the novel by V.S. Naipaul; director of photography, Ernie A. Vincze; music by Zakir Hussain; production designer, Lucy Richardson; produced by Richard Hawley and Nayeem Hafizka; released by ThinkFilm. Running time: 117 minutes. WITH: Aasif Mandvi (Ganesh), Om Puri (Ramlogan), Ayesha Dharker (Leela), James Fox ( Stewart), Jimi Mistry (Partap), Sakina Jaffrey (Suruj Mooma) and Zohra Segal (Auntie). ``The Mystic Masseur'' is rated PG (Parental guidance suggested) for sexual situations. 
