``The Years of Lyndon Johnson'' is the overall title of this biographical project that will eventually swell to four stout volumes. The third installment, ``Master of the Senate'' (Knopf, $35), has long been awaited _ Volume 2 appeared a dozen years ago _ and today marks its official publication date. Nor will it disappoint admirers of ``The Path to Power'' (1982), which covered Johnson's upbringing and his years in the House of Representatives, and ``Means of Ascent,'' which centered on the controversial 1948 race that sent ``Landslide Lyndon'' to the Senate on the basis of votes stolen in South Texas. Both of those books won the National Book Critics Circle Award and earned critical garlands by the armload, although the latter volume has been criticized for overdoing the praise of Johnson's opponent in the 1948 election, Coke Stevenson. Like its predecessors, ``Master of the Senate'' is a brilliant study of a driven and masterful politician, a book dense with fly-on-the-wall detail, written with fluency and a novelist's feel for high drama. The book covers the 12 years Johnson spent in the U.S. Senate, seven as Democratic Party leader. It does so at enormous length, 1,040 pages, not including notes, yet it can fairly be said there's scarcely a dull page in the book. How can that be? First, like any good epic, ``Master of the Senate'' has a plot, a grand narrative arc. In brief, it is this: Ambition had always been the strongest motive force in Johnson's personality. Not political philosophy, not political ideals, but the acquisition of power and position. ``It was not the desire to `help somebody' but to `be somebody' that drove him most strongly,'' Caro writes. From the beginning the Hill Country politician's eyes had been set on the presidency. Johnson entered the Senate in 1949. History pressed upon that body the vital question of civil rights, and he discovered the only way he had a chance at the presidency was to pass legislation addressing the plight of African-Americans in this country. Thus it came about that doing good for Lyndon and doing good for the country coincided. Johnson, having persuaded himself of the righteousness of the cause, dedicated his ferocious energy as well as his guile, his powers of persuasion, and his mastery of the legislative process to shoving through the Senate the Civil Rights Act of 1957, legislation that paved the way for the more substantive civil rights bills of the 1960s. That, in a nutshell, is the story this book tells. But to that narrative trunk Caro grafts numberless branches and foliage of astonishing variety and richness. What nourishes this growth is his reliance not simply on written documents but on the testimony of men and women who watched Johnson at work in the Senate. Much of the real story of these years occurred in the cloakrooms off the Senate floor and in offices far from the public eye. Caro, who is obviously a skilled and tenacious interviewer, has found the people who were there and persuaded them to talk. And talk with surprising candor. SOUTHERN DEMOCRATS In the late 1940s and 1950s, conservative Southern Democrats dominated the Senate. In 1949, they or their allies held the chairmanships of all but one of the 13 major committees. Georgia's Richard Russell, chairman of the Armed Services Committee, was generally considered the most powerful figure in the Senate. The nominal Senate leaders _ the majority leader and minority leader _ were virtual jokes, men with responsibility but no real power, frequently the fall guys when something went wrong. Nobody particularly coveted their posts. For Caro, Russell would be the beau ideal of the senator but for one thing _ the Georgian's unremitting defense of segregation and his willingness to do whatever it took to stymie civil rights legislation. At the center of the book is, of course, a figure of almost Shakespearean complexity. Caro has a metaphor for Johnson's character: a dark tapestry through which ran certain gleaming threads. Caro writes as an unabashed liberal for whom the federal government has an obligation to protect the weak and poor and to foster social justice. For Johnson, the greatest domestic challenge facing the country in the 1950s was the battle against legally sanctioned segregation in the South. So in assessing Johnson, he sees ``gleaming threads'' at those times when Johnson advanced the cause of liberal reform _ for example when, as a young congressman, he finally changed his mind about civil rights. But there was always a lot of dark in the tapestry. Compassion and empathy for people of color had long been a part of Johnson's character, Caro contends, but political self-interest always came first. COURTING RUSSELL As a Democrat from Texas, Johnson entered the Senate a natural ally of the Old Bulls who ran the chamber. They certainly viewed him as such. As he had done at every stage of his career, he fastened himself to the most powerful figure around _ Richard Russell _ and courted the elder man assiduously. It was Russell who eased the freshman into positions of leadership. Much of the central part of the book describes how Johnson took what had been nothing jobs _ assistant party leader or ``whip,'' then minority leader, and finally, when the Democrats retook the Senate in 1955, majority leader _ and turned them into positions of real power. The specifics of how he did this are too labyrinthine to go into here, but suffice to say he managed to extract power from the Old Bulls without them realizing it, along the way killing off the strict seniority system, a feat no one could have predicted. He revolutionized the way the Senate was run. He accomplished this by dent of an enormous energy and capacity for work, a drive that made him seem like a force of nature. ``The greatest salesman one-on-one who ever lived,'' as one observer put it. The Johnson whom Caro describes is far different from the stiff, solemn-faced public figure of the later presidency. Though not a great reader of books, Johnson was a great reader of men, Caro writes. ``He had a genius for studying a man and learning his strengths and weaknesses and hopes and fears, his deepest strengths and weaknesses: what it was that the man really wanted _ not what he said he wanted but what he really wanted _ and what it was the man feared, really feared.'' He made the Senate work, but as far as his presidential ambitions were concerned, Johnson was in a box. He was identified with the South and knew he had no chance at the presidential nomination without the support of the South. That was his base. Southerners such as Russell looked upon a Johnson presidency as a levy against the rising waters of desegregation. Yet Johnson also knew _ and his abortive run at the 1956 Democratic nomination proved only too clearly _ that he could never win as a sectional candidate. Without Northern liberal support his presidential dreams were doomed. ALLIANCE WITH HUMPHREY Johnson tried to forge an alliance with the ardently liberal Hubert Humphrey, who also entered the Senate in 1949. Theirs was a particularly complex relationship, one in which the much tougher Johnson had the edge. Caro shrewdly anatomizes this political duet. In 1957 Johnson took it upon himself to try to find a compromise civil rights bill that would be acceptable to both Northern liberals and Southern conservatives. One thing he had going for him was his knack for making people on opposite sides of an issue believe that deep down he agreed with them. Looking ahead to the great civil rights acts of 1964 and 1965 during Johnson's tenure in the White House, Caro says admiringly, ``It was Lyndon Johnson, among all the white government officials in 20th century America, who did the most to help America's black men and women in their fight for equality and justice. Did Caro really need more than a thousand pages to tell this story? Probably not. But he writes with clarity, even grace. And more important, he has the rare ability in a historian to render fact with the shape and dramatic force of great fiction and to do so without resort to gimmickry. ``Master of the Senate'' is, as they say, a hard book to put down. XXX END OF STORY 
