The New York Times said in an editorial forWednesday, May 1: President Bush said some encouraging words this week about the need for a health care system that will treat mental illness with the same urgency as physical illness. The president seemed to suggest that health insurance should cover mental problems on the same terms as other medical problems. If the president is serious about this issue, he will need to lean on recalcitrant House Republicans, the chief impediment to reform, to pass a bill elevating mental health coverage to a par with medical and surgical coverage. Congress took the first step toward this goal in 1996 when it passed legislation that prevented private plans that offer mental health coverage from setting annual or lifetime limits that are lower than those set for other illnesses. But that law left a loophole that allowed companies to require much higher deductibles and co-payments for mental health treatments than for other diseases. So a new bill _ pioneered by Sens. Pete Domenici, R-N.M., and Paul Wellstone, D-Minn. _ is now pending that would require parity in all terms, including deductibles, co-insurance and duration of treatment. Although Bush shared the stage in Albuquerque with Domenici, a longtime supporter of full mental health parity, he did not endorse the senator's progressive and expansive bill, which would require parity for more than 200 mental health conditions listed in the chief diagnostic manual when they cause clinically significant impairment. In one comment, Bush seemed to be seeking ``full mental health parity,'' but in another he talked only of putting ``serious mental disease'' on a par with other diseases. He also called it ``critical'' that the move toward parity not run up the cost of health care significantly. The chief arguments shaping up in Congress involve the potential cost of upgraded mental health coverage and the appropriate range of mental illness to be covered. The Congressional Budget Office estimated last year that the Domenici-Wellstone bill would drive up premiums by about 1 percent, a cost that seems bearable given the importance of treating mental illness and removing the stigma attached to it. The health industry suspects that costs may rise faster and deplores any added cost to a system already under financial strain. But surely there are compromises that would install mental health parity as the norm but allow health plans to abandon parity if their psychiatric costs rose beyond a reasonable level. Bush needs to follow his rhetoric with some hard bargaining to get a bill passed by Congress this year. 
