Although blacks and members of other ethnic minorities make up a growing percentage of Americans infected with the virus that causes AIDS, they are seriously underrepresented in clinical trials studying new treatments for the disease, a team of California researchers said Wednesday. Their study, the most comprehensive analysis of studies involving treatments for the virus, HIV, found that African-Americans and Hispanics are roughly half as likely as white to participate in HIV treatment trials, and about half as likely to get experimental medicines. Experts at the National Institutes of Health, which runs an extensive AIDS clinical trials program, challenged the findings, saying that because the study is based on patient interviews conducted between 1996 and 1998, it is out of date. ``A lot has happened in the past four years,'' said Dr. Jonathan Kagan, a top AIDS official at the health institutes. While the problem of racial disparities is ``by no means eradicated,'' Kagan said, researchers have been making a concerted, and successful, effort to draw more minority patients into clinical trials. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reports that, as of December 2000, whites accounted for 43 percent of Americans in whom AIDS has been diagnosed, blacks accounted for 38 percent and Hispanics, 18 percent. Kagan said the ethnic makeup of NIH-funded clinical trials roughly reflects those percentages. The California researchers took a different tack. Rather than examining the population of patients in clinical trials, they looked at the entire universe of people infected with HIV, and then assessed the likelihood that members of minorities would enter clinical trials. ``It may be that improvements have taken place, and I think there is much reason for optimisim,'' said the study's lead author, Dr. Allen L. Gifford, an assistant professor of medicine at the University of California at San Diego an assistant professor of medi- cine at the University of California at San Diego, who treats patients for the Veterans Affairs-San Diego L Healthcare System. But, he added, there are no more recent data ``that tell us one way or another whether the situation has improved since 1998.'' Gifford and his colleagues based their analysis on a nationally representative sample of 2,864 patients who were receiving medical care for HIV infection between 1996 and 1998. They examined the patients' records and interviewed them on three occasions. All told, the researchers found that 14 percent of HIV-infected adults who receive medical care in the United States had participated in a medication trial during the study period. By comparison, just 4 percent of cancer patients aged 20 to 49 had participated in a clinical trial during that time. The study, which appears in this week's issue of the New England Journal of Medicine, comes on the heels of a report by the independent Institute of Medicine that found members of minorities get worse care than whites, even when their income, education and insurance are the same. Likewise, the California research found that the disparities held true even when socioeconomic status and insurance were taken into account. But it also found another factor that influenced participation in clinical trials: proximity to a major study center. Patients who lived closer to hospitals that run clinical trials were more likely to be enrolled. The study did not pinpoint a single reason for the racial disparities, but experts, including Gifford, offered several possible explanations. One is that members of minorities, particularly blacks, are suspicious of medical research _ a legacy of the notorious Tuskegee experiment, in which poor black men in rural Alabama were left untreated for syphilis _ and so are reluctant to enroll. Another is subtle prejudice on the part of doctors. In an editorial accompanying the article, Dr. Talmadge E. King Jr., chief of medical services at San Francisco General Hospital, wrote that ``researchers purposely avoid recruiting marginalized populations,'' such as members of minorities, homeless people and drug abusers, ``because they believe poor compliance is common in these groups.'' 
