Seaside is a disconcerting place. Driving toward it on Highway 98 from Pensacola, to the west, is like running a gantlet. Hit Fort Walton Beach, and you're nearing the heart of the Florida Panhandle. The traffic thickens. Huge chain hotels form a wall between road and beach to the right; sprawl stalwarts like TGI Friday's and a (shuttered) Kmart crowd each other to the left. Then, at the east end of Destin, just past a giant digital sign flashing the words ``Hot Tub'' in red letters, there's a respite. Minutes later, with little warning, a small sign for County Road 30A materializes, and if you follow that for 10 miles, you wind up in a place with no chain businesses of any kind, pristine brick streets with big pedestrian-friendly sidewalks, green spaces, multicolored houses and white picket fences. Welcome to Seaside. If Seaside (www.seasidefl.com) is one reality removed from the flotsam of overdevelopment jostling for your attention on 98, well, that's the whole point. Plenty of visitors find their way here for the beautiful white-sand beaches. But others _ like me _ come specifically for a firsthand look at one of the best-known living laboratories of New Urbanism. (OK, the beaches don't hurt.) New Urbanism is a design movement that tries to envision cities, towns and neighborhoods as more fundamentally livable places, guided not by the raw pressures of the market (which always seems to deliver another chain restaurant), but by careful planning and a rigorous aesthetic sense. Like many theories, New Urbanism sounds wonderful, but hard to imagine in practice. This is Seaside's appeal: Practically anyone who has read about New Urbanism wants a chance to see it first-hand. Back in 1981, when the first structures on these 80 acres were completed, 30A was largely untouched. Seaside's developer wanted to do something that broke with beachfront resort tradition, and imagined a little town built around a pre-automobile version of community. The upshot is not exactly a nostalgic recreation of small-town America, although as you stroll around, it's easy to see why it's described that way. The town center, facing 30A, is dominated by a village green of sorts, but also by a big, mixed-use building designed by the architect Steven Holl that's too striking and modern for, say, Mayberry. The best part of Seaside is its houses. While the construction code laid down rules _ on window shape, roof pitch and so on _ it also left room for individuality. This was smart, because the project attracted a lot of talented architects. So while there's a consistency to the streetscapes of wooden houses, there's also a lot of candy-colored variety. There are echoes of Charleston, Key West, even the French Quarter. . There's also the occasional widow's walk of the sort seen in Nantucket. And many of the earlier Seaside bungalows show the closer-to-home influence of the clapboard cabins of Grayton Beach _ the oldest nearby town, right alongside the Grayton Beach State Recreation Area, which also has a gorgeous beach. A few push the boundaries a bit more. The house that Walter Chatham designed for himself looks like two houses, but they're joined by an outdoor ``dog trot.'' And some of the newer arrivals are considerably more ostentatious. After a while, Seaside actually verges on a feeling of too much perfection. And as you wander, marveling at how everyone walks and bikes here, just as the planners intended, most of your fellow pedestrians are also tourists, marveling right back at you. The houses all sparkle more than they would in a real town, because pretty much everything you see is available for seasonal rental. If it all seems a little like the set of ``The Truman Show,'' that might be because it was filmed here. While Seaside's population reaches into the thousands in peak season, only a handful of people _ maybe 30 _ really live here year-round. Holly Speight and her husband are among them. A few years ago they abandoned Nashville, where they worked in the health-care industry, reinvented themselves as artisan-entrepreneurs, and now run a Seaside shop called Albert F's, selling antiques, gifts and ``garden art.'' Speight's enthusiasm for the place bubbles through as she suggests that suddenly sociable visitors would act the same way back home if their neighborhoods had been guided by the principles of New Urbanism. Only in the heat of the summer, when the crowds are at their peak, does she get that ``goldfish bowl'' feeling. ``These people are here one week and gone the next,'' she said. ``We kiddingly say: `OK, we're Truman-ed out. We need a break.''' Enough visitors have come and gone over the years to inspire some Seaside-influenced developments nearby. To the east is Rosemary Beach (www.rosemarybeach.com), whose more modest downtown consists mostly of a mission-style town hall and matching post office, plus a few shops, a lemonade stand and a wine bar. The planners for both Seaside and Rosemary Beach were Andres Duany and Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk, who, with Jeff Speck, wrote an anti-sprawl book called ``Suburban Nation'' (North Point Press, 2000). Duany will lead a three-day bus tour in June from Seaside through several other New Urbanist communities around Florida, arriving in Miami Beach in time for this year's Congress for the New Urbanism conference. It's sold out, but you can still join in if you're willing to drive yourself; for details: (850) 231-2421. Right next door to Seaside to the west is the bluntly named WaterColor (www.arvida.com/watercolor), which also offers brick streets and a big, landscaped park; its buildings are more imposing and the overall feel is more antiseptic, but the big central hotel, designed by David Rockwell, is worth a gawk. A word about finding a place to stay along this strip: Seaside is the most fully realized of these projects and also the prettiest home base. But it's expensive, as is the whole area, and the emphasis is on weekly rentals. Rates vary seasonally, but when I called Seaside Reservations, which functions as the central authority in such matters (800-277-8696), and asked for the cheapest thing I could get for two nights in April, I ended up in a ``cottage.'' It was actually a sort of loft in the Holl-designed town center building, and figuring in all taxes and fees, ran $520 for the weekend. I was surprised to find that right across the street is something called Seaside Motorcourt, an idealized motel with groovily appointed rooms. This would have cost $370 for two nights. If only I'd known to ask. Now you do. That said, pets, smoking, and small children are pretty much verboten in all Seaside lodgings. Lots of rules in utopia, turns out. When I got Trumaned-out, I headed for the beach, or for the road _ suddenly it was a happy thing to be a mere drive from some good Southern food and the more familiar attractions of Panhandle beach culture. But for all the traditional garishness, you'll see nothing as ambitiously out-of-the-ordinary as the planned towns of 30A. In a sense, maybe Seaside and its cousins (a simulacrum and its knockoffs) function as a postmodern roadside attraction. Think of it as a sort of Rock City for design fanatics. 
