Someday it may be robo-rats to the rescue. Scientists reported Wednesday they have successfully wired and ``piloted'' live rats _ steering them over fences and up trees _ with radio signals from a joystick on a laptop computer. No, it's not ``Willard II.'' Researchers at the State University of New York say real-life rats, fitted with tiny video cameras and satellite navigation devices, could be the forerunners of search-and-rescue rat packs, trained to scour collapsed buildings for survivors or locate unexploded land mines. ``Rats are more mobile than mechanical robots, which are often stymied by fences, rocks and debris,'' said physiologist John Chapin of the SUNY Downstate Medical Center. ``They also have sophisticated navigational skills developed over 200 million years of evolution.'' They're also easy to train. Chapin and Sanvij Talwar implanted probes in the brains of rats and trained them in mazes to run, jump and turn. The probes send electronic cues that stimulate the whisker receptors and the reward center of the rat's brain, producing a euphoria akin to a drug-induced high. Then they took the rats outside. From five blocks away, they were able to guide them through pipes, across runways and ledges, even up trees. Under human control, the rats systematically explored piles of concrete rubble and even did some things, like jumping off high steps or venturing into open space, that they normally would resist. ``Training our operators was actually harder,'' said Talwar. ``We had a Chinese graduate student who is now the best video game player in Brooklyn.'' There's no technical barrier that would prevent the technology's being used in higher animals, Chapin said, but he thinks the practice would be unethical. And he said remote control to manipulate human behavior _ as portrayed in Michael Crichton's ``Terminal Man'' _ should be illegal. The research, supported by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, is actually an outgrowth of efforts to develop thought-controlled prosthetic devices for people with spinal cord injuries. Other researchers are giving the idea mixed reviews. Kate Rears of Washington-based Electronic Privacy Information Center says it means that human control technology is no longer merely the stuff of science fiction. ``It's `Brave New World'-ish,'' she says. ``A lot of people are very wary of that sort of thing.'' Mike Toner writes for The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. E-mail: mtoner(at)ajc.com Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
