Dear Dr. Bombay: When my computer tries to defrag, it can't seem to make it past 2 percent before it starts all over again and again and again. What's up with that? _ Defraggus Interruptus Dear Defraggus: I guess you think my life is pretty easy, don't you? Nothing to do but sit around and answer simple questions all day, then collect a big paycheck at the end of the week. Listen, Bub, if you knew how many times over the past seven years somebody has asked either this question or the one about Windows not shutting down, you'd have included a money order with your letter to assuage your guilt at having asked this one yet again. Well, I refuse to answer the shutdown thing anymore, and this is the last time for the defrag deal. Got it? If anybody asks about it after today, I'll come to your house, empty your liquor cabinet and marry your daughter, and that's not an idle threat. After this, leave me alone, go to my Web site (www.bombayinstitute.com) and find the answer there. You can still send me money orders, though. Defrag is a utility program that rearranges all the chunks of data on your hard drive so they're contiguous. Afterward, the read/write head can get what it needs to in one place instead of jumping all around the drive, giving you your stuff a few nanoseconds faster. Because it reads and writes to the drive, anything else that's modifying the disk contents at the same time causes it to shut down. It'll try and try and try, eventually giving up like a petulant child. It's up to you to shut down everything first. If you have Win98 or later, start Msconfig.exe from the Run dialog in the Start menu. On the General tab, make sure ``Selective Startup'' is checked, then uncheck all the boxes below it. Restart your machine, then run Defrag. And try to remember to recheck those boxes. If you've got Win95 (or you don't want to mess with Msconfig in 98), hold down F8 as you boot, then pick ``Safe mode.'' There are plenty of other things that can hammer defrag, but I'm not going to tell you what they are. After all, you forgot about the money order. Check out windows-help.net/windows98/troub-29.htm instead. Dear Dr. Bombay: Great column on how to open an attachment, but you warned not to leave the box checked that says to always use a particular application to open a file. I did not listen, and now I need to change the setting. _ Too Late Dear Late: Do you really want me to ban another category of question? Do you? Well, write this answer down and stick it somewhere safe, because this one is next on my list. Find Folder Options. In some versions of Windows it's in the Control Panel; in some you can open the Start menu, go to Settings and find it there. You can even find it in the Tools menu of most versions of Windows Explorer. Just find it. Click the File Types tab, find the thing you want to get rid of, then click ``Remove.'' Was that so hard? Next time you try to open a file type like the one you zapped, you get to choose the application again. Get it right this time, OK? (Noted computerologist Dr. Emilio Bombay offers occasionally accurate advice about most things electronic. He can be reached on Internet at drbombay(at)star-telegram.com; via snail-mail at Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Box 1870, Fort Worth 76101; or fax: (817) 390-7257. In real life, Dr. Bombay is Michael Gerst, editorial systems manager for the Fort Worth Star-Telegram. Visit the Star-Telegram's online services on the World Wide Web: www.star-telegram.com) nn 
