ANDERSEN,BAPTIST FACE OFF(a) (For use by N.Y. Times News Service clients)(a) By Craig Harris(a) c.2002 The Arizona Republic(a) Despite warnings of financial fraud at the Baptist Foundation of Arizona, Arthur Andersen auditors covered up the scandal to protect their own interests, an attorney suing the accounting giant said Tuesday. ``This is a case about the terrible things that happen when Arthur Andersen didn't do what the (foundation's) board hired them to do,'' said Sean Coffey, the lead attorney. During his two-hour opening statement, Coffey told 12 Maricopa County Superior Court jurors that one Andersen accountant knew details of the fraud 2 years before the foundation filed for bankruptcy in November 1999. The trust is seeking $150million from Andersen for its role in the foundation's collapse. However, Andersen attorney Don Martin said the Baptist Foundation board and the Arizona Southern Baptist Convention were aware of the problems as early as December 1996 but hid them from the accounting firm. Regulators from four state agencies knew of the problems in the early 1990s but never informed Andersen, Martin said in his opening statement. ``They knew about the fraud. You can take that to the bank.'' Martin told the jurors, explaining that the deception was disclosed at a board meeting. He said that the foundation board included sophisticated financial experts, including a former chief executive of Armour Foods, a lawyer, and two executives from Salt River Project. ``This trial will reveal to you a conspiracy of silence,'' Martin said. Hoping to turn tables Andersen is hoping the jury of seven women and five men will find that the foundation, its employees and Southern Baptist leaders who oversaw the foundation were the ones at fault in a scandal that resulted in 11,000 investors losing $570million. A victory could be a publicity boost for Andersen, which also is facing a federal obstruction charge for its role in auditing Enron. Coffey contended that the silence came from Andersen accountants. He said accountant Ann McGrath and her supervisor, Jay Ozer, were aware of the problems in 1997 but did nothing to uncover the fraud because they would have had to restate their prior ``clean audits.'' Such a move would have prevented McGrath from being promoted and cut the salary of Ozer, a partner in the firm, Coffey said. He said that Andersen likely would have lost the foundation as a client and that the company punishes accountants who have to restate financial statements. Ozer and McGrath declined to comment. The two also are being investigated by the State Board of Accountancy, which is seeking to strip their certified public accountant licenses for their roles in the foundation's collapse. Coffey represents a trust seeking to recoup some of the money investors lost in the largest bankruptcy in U.S. history by a religious non-profit organization. Andersen, on March 1, offered to pay $217million to settle four civil suits in Arizona for its role in the foundation's failure. That settlement was rejected by Andersen's insurer, which forced the issue to trial before Judge Edward Burke in a cramped, small courtroom Tuesday. About 40 spectators, many of them investors, were turned away. First warning The first warning about potential fraud, according to Coffey, came from Karen Paetz, a former foundation accountant who warned McGrath of the problems at a February 1997 lunch meeting. McGrath informed Ozer of the meeting, Coffey said, but Andersen didn't disclose the problem to the foundation board. In response, Martin said Paetz had intimate knowledge of questionable transactions among shell companies but produced no documents supporting that for McGrath. And, Martin said, the board was aware of the problems. Coffey said Andersen also became aware of fraud at the foundation when it was tipped off by Allen Jordan and Roger Hall, two Dallas CPAs who ran religious non-profits audited by Andersen. In July 1997, the two informed an Andersen official in Dallas, who forwarded the concern to Andersen's international Chicago headquarters, he said. Martin said the information at that meeting involved the financial stability of the foundation and whether the foundation could sell unregistered securities. He said the information was reviewed by Andersen executives, who concluded there was not a problem issuing the securities. Reviewing records As a third example of Andersen's involvement, Coffey said that in early 1998, Deeann Griebel, a Mesa financial planner, notified Andersen's Phoenix and Chicago offices that there were problems after reviewing the foundation's records for one of her clients. Despite the warnings, Andersen covered up the scam, according to Coffey. He said Al Hague, a tax specialist for Andersen, who also is under investigation by the State Board of Accountancy, encouraged another Andersen auditor to remove a reference to an audit problem from internal documents. Martin, however, said the document was for internal purposes only and that Hague's concern was whether Andersen would lose its tax-exempt status. `Due diligence' In June 1998, Ozer informed the accountancy board that Andersen had performed ``due diligence in reviewing financial questions raised at the foundation.'' But investigators said the foundation actually was running a scheme that collapsed when the value of land, used as collateral, tanked in Arizona during the late 1980s and early 1990s, forcing the foundation into debt. The foundation then sold those assets to shell companies controlled by foundation insiders to make it appear that the foundation was profitable. By the late 1990s, the foundation had overstated its assets by $300million, and those off-the-book companies were millions in debt. Reach the reporter at craig.harris(a)arizona republic.com or (602) 444-8995. 
