Women in tight skirts, hip-hugging slacks and scanty tops move seductively with men in dress shirts and slacks to the feverish pace of salsa music at Nell's, a popular Manhattan night club. As the hours reach the early morning, the downstairs dance floor teems with breathless dancers who dip, jump, and glide with lightning speed to the Latin beats of Eddie Palmieri and Machito. Salsa is king on any given Wednesday evening at this 14th Street nightspot. But on any night of the week, this high-energy music fills dance halls throughout New York City. In recent years, salsa music has captured a worldwide following of dance-crazed salseros. Nell's attracts a crowd as diverse as a General Assembly meeting at the United Nations. ``It's an interesting mixture,'' says Ria Peimaneh, a 20-something student from Rome, Italy, who claims to have danced salsa all over Europe. At Nell's, ``there are people from Puerto Rico, other Latin American countries and everywhere else.'' Wet from perspiration, she plops down on a loveseat in a room adjacent to the dance floor. ``I've danced the tango and flamenco, too passionate -- ugh!'' she said. ``Nothing compares to hard-core New York salsa dancers.'' Salsa is a combination of Cuban, Puerto Rican and Afro-Cuban rhythms that began in Cuba in the 1930s. It crossed over to Spanish Harlem in the depression decades, 1930s and 1940s, and was then embraced by Puerto Ricans. By the 1940s and 1950s, the music, which already emphasized Afro-Cuban instruments such as the conga and timbales, mixed with African American jazz and big band swing. Jazz elements improvised the use of the flute, saxophone and trumpet, made legendary by musicians such as Dizzy Gillespie. The rhythmic music seduces people of different nationalities and walks of life. Some music experts claim that this particular brand of music even penetrated social and ethnic barriers dating to the late 1940s at the Palladium, a New York dance hall, where Italian, Jewish, Asian and African-Americans danced with each other. ``The Afro-Cuban rhythms are erotic and it appeals to people around the world like in Japan, Europe, Italy, Germany, Finland, Holland,'' says Max Salazar, a Latin music historian. ``A lot of stereotypes were dispelled once people found out, 'You're just like me.''' Salsa dance clubs thrive in many major cities. In New York, a dance club hierarchy even prevails -- dancers often frequent clubs according to their dancing expertise. Ann Flores, 44, a public relations director of a Latin music and culture organization, says she prefers La Maganette on Third Avenue, where there is a more seasoned clientele. ``I prefer the older crowds -- people in their 60s and 70s,'' she says while watching a Latin music combo. ``I watch the couples in awe. Older dancers dance from the heart.'' Eddie Pardovani, 40, says that he prefers Gonzalez Y Gonzalez on Broadway or Sounds of Brazil (SOB's) on Varick Street because the crowds are less ``stuffy'' than at Nell's. ``You get to dance close with a woman,'' Pardovani says after an evening at SOB's. ``It's one of the most sensual forms of dance, it's rhythmic and sexy. I've seen people fall in love dancing salsa. At the very least, you might take someone home afterward. That's the potential power of salsa.'' Kiran Bhat, 42, a gastroenterologist, says he's been taking dance classes for four years. After dancing a long shift at Nell's, he says he always wanted to study the dance form, because ``it's expressive with layers of skill necessary and yet dancers can still be spontaneous.'' When it comes to mastering salsa, there are even dance classes. Beginning salseros can choose from Latin ballroom dance including cha-cha-cha, mambo and other salsa variations, including ``salsa on 2,'' a musical dance style made famous by Eddie Torres, a New York instructor. Max Davis, 53, an equipment salesman from Jamaica, says he's been dancing salsa for five years and got ``addicted to the music'' after a friend took him to salsa dance clubs in Manhattan. ``You have to take classes,'' Davis says during an evening at Nell's. ``You can't learn by watching. You have to keep in unison with this music from Puerto Rico and Cuba with its variation of the mambo.'' After first learning salsa and meringue in Panama, David Chin, an appliance exporter, has danced weekly for the last four years. ``At first, I didn't like it,'' says Chin, 36. ``dance teachers would teach on count -- 1, 2, 3 and I have a problem with that, because you forget about the dancing and then you're just marching. The sounds of the conga, timbale and clave or wooden stick ... The music leads me, not the count.'' Chie Masaki, 32, an assistant to a Japanese diplomat, studied Latin ballroom several years ago. She began taking classes from Torres last summer and attends at least five days a week. ``You never 'graduate' -- you can't stop,'' Masaki says, smiling. Her silver lame top glistens slightly; she's been dancing most of the evening at Nell's and is chatting with a friend. ``With salsa, I feel passion. I'm not Latin -- I'm from Japan -- but it's in my blood. I love the music.'' (EDITORS: There is no charge for use of this story, but please send a tearsheet to Professor Stephen D. Isaacs, Columbia News Service, Graduate School of Journalism, Columbia University, 2950 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10027.) 
