Reggie Swinton is at his worst when he's alone. That's when he can't help but think of the Bell's palsy that has paralyzed the right side of his face. The second-year Cowboys receiver has spent almost a week trying to understand why he has lost feeling in that area. Since Friday morning, he has been unable to smile, blink his right eye, taste food or drink without dripping. Sometimes, he can't speak clearly. He wears dark sunglasses to conceal the weakened muscles around his eye, and he doesn't take his visored helmet off during practice. But he can still catch a football, and that's what he's tried to keep in mind during minicamp practices at Valley Ranch. ``Playing football, it gives me a chance to forget, relax and do what I've been doing for years,'' he said. ``But the times when I'm alone, like at night, I get real depressed. It's hard to describe how I really feel. That's why I try to spend as much time around here as I can and be around my teammates.'' Bell's palsy is the most common cause of facial paralysis, according to the National Centers for Facial Paralysis (www.bellspalsy.com). Facial paralysis can be caused by a viral infection, brain surgery, trauma or injury to the face, exposure to a toxin, and other factors. Bell's palsy is an idiopathic viral attack on the facial nerve that occurs in 11 out of 10,000 people. The Web site says about half of all sufferers experience spontaneous recovery within a month without any treatment. Twenty percent recover within three months, and 5 to 10 percent recover within six months. Treatment includes antiviral medications and muscle therapy. Swinton, who set a team record for kickoff-return yardage last season, hasn't changed his practice style, Cowboys coach Dave Campo said. ``He seems to be doing everything out there that he's asked to do, so I don't see him being shy at all,'' Campo said. ``I'm sure he can't help but be bothered by it, but I don't think it's affecting his play once he gets out on the field.'' Swinton won't allow himself to slip. He played in four professional football leagues and was cut six times before sticking with the Cowboys last season. ``As long as I'm physically fit to make plays, I'll make plays,'' he said. ``I can't let this affect my plans because nobody's job is secure. You've got to make plays.'' HABIT HAWK The Cowboys lost 12 years of experience when they released center Mark Stepnoski, leaving ninth-year guard Larry Allen as the most experienced player on the offensive line. That's one of the reasons coach Dave Campo is closely watching the habits of that younger group. ``We're getting enough technique work out there with every position that, I don't want to see the same mistake in footwork and that type of thing from one practice to the next,'' he said. ``That shows me how well we're picking things up, whether we're listening. ``But as far as making an evaluation, especially on the offensive line and defensive line, it's hard to do that without pads on.'' CENTER OF ATTENTION With Mark Stepnoski gone, second-year center Matt Lehr figured to get a lot of work in this week's minicamp. But he's used to it. ``Toward the end of the season, Step was hardly practicing because he was so banged-up,'' Lehr said. ``I'd take all the reps on Tuesday. So, now, I'm working with the first team and not feeling like I'm just taking his spot for the practice. It means more to me now than ever.'' Lehr (6-foot-2, 292 pounds) said he added 30 pounds since last season in anticipation of more playing time. The Cowboys gave him competition when they drafted Colorado center/guard Andre Gurode two weeks ago. ``You're not a football player if you don't like competition,'' Lehr said. One more year Defensive tackle Michael Myers said he was looking ahead when he decided to re-sign with the Cowboys after being an unrestricted free agent. Initially, it was thought that the free-agent signing of La'Roi Glover made the fifth-year pro from Alabama expendable. ``I basically came in and said, `I'll come back one more year. I can't go wrong here,' '' Myers said. ``I'll come in, work hard, and maybe my situation will work out next year.'' Myers, a fourth-round pick in 1998, signed a one-year deal for $1 million. nn 
