The war that Saddam Hussein started in August 1990 has never ended. Not for Saddam, who proudly declares in speech after windy speech that he has not ceased waging war against America and its allies. And not for America and its regional partners, who are the primary targets of Saddam's chemical and biological weapons and will come into the cross-hairs of his nuclear weapons as soon as he acquires them. It is because Saddam cannot be allowed to go nuclear that President Bush is obliged to undo the mistake of his father, who in the spring of 1991 gave Saddam a green light to crush a popular uprising with helicopter gunships and heavy artillery, slaughtering tens of thousands of brave resisters. Once Saddam has the nuclear weapons he has been pursuing for more than two decades, his neighbors will be at his mercy and Washington will be subject to an intolerable threat of nuclear blackmail. To grasp the nature of that threat, one need only contemplate Saddam's past _ his use of chemical weapons against Iraqi Kurds and Iranians, his sponsoring of terrorist operations carried out by proxies, his invasion of two countries, Iran and Kuwait, his police state's record of torturing, raping, and murdering hundreds of thousands of Iraqi citizens. There is no conclusive proof that Saddam played a role in the atrocities of Sept. 11, but there have been reports of meetings in Prague and the United Arab Emirates between some of the suicidal terrorists from Al Qaeda and Iraqi intelligence agents. To their credit, members of the current Bush administration who served in the administration of the former President Bush have recognized their original error of 1991, when they believed that Saddam could not survive very long in his enfeebled state and would be overthrown sooner rather than later in a military coup. That coup never came. Several times the CIA plotted with one clique of generals or another _ only to see their conspiracies infiltrated by Saddam's spies. Now that the current administration is openly talking about toppling Saddam's regime, it is crucial that policy makers reflect as carefully about the political outcome of regime change as about the military means to achieve it. There are Iraqis of diverse religious, ethnic, and regional backgrounds who have long opposed Saddam's dictatorship in the name of a democratic vision of Iraq, one that would respect minority rights and human rights and would devote its rich natural and human resources to peaceful economic development. The United States should be supporting those democratic opponents of Saddam, not another clique of generals liable to perpetuate Saddamism without Saddam. 
