After a nail-biting run of zigzags, shortcuts and back-seat squabbling, President George W. Bush has finally had the sense to stop and ask directions in his policy toward the Middle East. It is true that the man he asked, Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, upbraided him for dangerous driving and gave Bush a map that he may not want to follow. But at least the occupants of the vehicle have a chance to think about where they are going. The main achievement of last week's Crawford summit with Prince Abdullah was to involve Bush himself more directly in Middle Eastern policy. In the past, he has intervened largely to support _ or sometimes undermine _ his emissaries. This time, he was the principal in the talks and in the diplomacy that followed. Abandoning recent megaphone tactics, he twisted Ariel Sharon's arm privately to accept a compromise ending Israel's armed siege of Yasser Arafat's compound in Ramallah. Some remembered that his father and President Bill Clinton had both been reluctant at first to step into the Middle Eastern snake pit, and wondered if he was about to get more involved. Not necessarily. But this week's performance did suggest that something had changed. First, it showed an unmistakable, perhaps reluctant, recognition by the White House that the ``Arab street'' cannot be ignored, at least in the Middle East. Secretary of State Colin Powell's earlier visit had been deemed a failure throughout the region. Bush's assertion that Sharon was ``a man of peace'' had been met with incredulity and uproar. The Saudis, who were bearing the burden of Arab opinion with them to the summit, argued that indifference to the Middle East had wider consequences. Bush also seemed to show concern for deteriorating American-Saudi relations. American public opinion has turned sharply against the Saudi alliance since Sept. 11, an atrocity organized and largely perpetrated by Saudis. The Defense Department has been said to be moving troops and equipment out of the Prince Sultan air base in Saudi Arabia to Qatar, though Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld has denied it. For his part, Prince Abdullah warned Bush privately last year that the two countries' interests would diverge sharply unless America took more notice of Arab opinion about Palestine. In a remarkable article in The New York Times on the day of the summit, unnamed Saudi sources _ presumably approved by the crown prince _ threatened to use oil as a weapon against America and forcefully declared that ``it is a mistake to think that our people will not do what is necessary to survive. And if that means we move to the right of bin Laden, so be it; to the left of Qaddafi, so be it; or fly to Baghdad and embrace Saddam Hussein like a brother, so be it.'' And if this means America abandons the House of Saud to the wolves, so be it, too, presumably. The Valium pill of Arafat's release was also designed to soothe this dangerously overheated talk. Diplomatic activity in Israel has been accompanied by subtle shifts in the rhetoric about the war on terror. Officials at the Pentagon, who are the main critics of negotiating with Arafat, have mostly turned their attention back to the unfinished business in Afghanistan. This is largely because all factions in the administration agree that an upsurge in al-Qaida or Taliban activity is against American interests, whether you are worried about the Middle East or Iraq. But the effect is to focus the war on terror back on a country that does not raise hackles among Arab regimes. At the same time, the Pentagon has taken the opportunity to remind everyone that it has not forgotten about Hussein. In another intriguing New York Times leak, Pentagon officials revealed that they had given up the idea of overthrowing the butcher of Baghdad by a coup, or an Afghan-style air campaign, and were developing plans for invading Iraq with up to 250,000 American troops. Paradoxically, however, this may take some immediate pressure off Arab allies who oppose _ at least in public _ an attack on Hussein. For no credible timetable was attached to this contingency plan, which could not begin until next spring at the earliest. And there is little sign yet of the sort of real preparation that would be required for such an attack, though a large ramp is under construction at the base in Qatar. In short, over the past week, America seems to have deferred an attack on Iraq _ while implying it will one day take place _ and stepped up its efforts in the Middle East _ presumably in the hope that by the time it is ready to invade Iraq, it will no longer be distracted by Israel. That, of course, is the delicate balance it must strike if it is to overthrow Hussein without provoking a confrontation with the whole Arab world. There is just one tiny problem, or three. The summit with Prince Abdullah on which so much seems to depend is regarded in Saudi Arabia itself as a failure. It is not clear that Bush is really committed to the sort of consistent Middle East policy that could dampen down the conflict and, that being so, Sharon or Arafat could wreck his careful balancing act at any time. The crown prince himself was a reluctant summiteer. Before the visit, many Saudis expected it to be canceled. Prince Abdullah's vaunted ``peace plan'' for Israel _ adopted by all members of the Arab League _ seemed to have been swept away by Sharon's incursion into Ramallah the very next day. Against that background, the real issue for Prince Abdullah was not Arafat's freedom of movement, but Bush's ability to bring the Israelis to the negotiating table, as the crown prince had done with the Arab regimes. It is far from clear that Bush is even trying to do that. The Saudis presented him with an eight-point plan leading to a comprehensive peace settlement. So far, he has adopted only point one, ending the siege of Arafat. That suggests that even if the president has decided to get more deeply involved in the Middle East, he is still hankering after the sort of incremental approach that has failed repeatedly in the past year or so. That in turn suggests that Bush has not yet resolved the basic ambiguity in his policy. He is simultaneously supporting Israel in its war against terror and trying to find a ``strategic balance'' in the region as a whole. Indeed, in yet another leaked story last week (this time in The Washington Post), State Department officials complained bitterly that the White House was continuously undermining their attempts to find a ``strategic balance'' by increasing pressure on Sharon. Without a consistent American policy, the risk is that Sharon or Arafat will wreck whatever balance Bush, or the State Department, imagine they are on the brink of achieving. 
