There was one thing Steve Phillips did as the Mets' farm director that really irked Jeromy Burnitz. ``I just remember really one incident,'' Burnitz said. ``It was no big deal. I was a college guy that didn't want to stay at the hotel with all the rest of the minor league guys. I wanted to rent my own apartment. It was against some type of policy that I argued. After that, we didn't have any type of problems.'' Phillips would not give in 12 years ago, and Burnitz lived with the other Mets' minor league players at the Holiday Inn in Port St. Lucie, Fla. Phillips is now the Mets' general manager, and he traded for Burnitz in January, the final piece to the offensive restructuring that was designed to reverse the Mets' lack of offense last season. The Mets are finally scoring, totaling 17 runs in victories Tuesday and Wednesday over the Arizona Diamondbacks. Their month of offensive slumber seems to be over, with Burnitz providing a powerful jolt Wednesday. His three-run homer in the first inning gave the Mets a 4-0 lead in their 7-1 victory. Burnitz has been the steadiest Met in the everyday lineup, and perhaps the only regular who has provided exactly what the Mets expected when they got him. Burnitz entered Thursday night's game against the Diamondbacks batting .242 with six home runs and a team-high 18 runs batted in. Burnitz was a lifetime .257 hitter with 188 homers before this season. ``I've pretty much done the same thing since I've been an everyday player,'' said Burnitz, who was acquired from Milwaukee in a three-team trade in January. He has played consistent defense in right field and played hard, a trademark that Phillips and manager Bobby Valentine remember from his days in the Mets' system. That was before he was traded to Cleveland in 1994, after two part-time seasons with the Mets. Valentine, who managed Burnitz at Class AAA Norfolk in 1994, said: ``He probably had more questions then and got upset with stuff more. There's quite a lot less questions because he's been through so much experience, he knows the answers to a lot of them. ``He's turned most of his negatives into positives. He uses his aggressiveness to hustle and go hard, his arm strength to throw hard all the time. When he was younger, he was more erratic.'' While Mike Piazza and Mo Vaughn have missed time with injuries, Edgardo Alfonzo has yet to hit a home run, Rey Ordonez has made eight errors and Roberto Alomar has yet to play like an All-Star, Burnitz has played like himself. That's enough for the Mets, although Valentine says he thinks that Burnitz is still improving as a hitter and that hard work will lead to a higher batting average. ``It probably starts with being part of a winning atmosphere,'' Burnitz said. Burnitz said April ``has been what I would consider a decent month.'' Burnitz, 33, may be modest, but he is also comfortable with himself. Burnitz, Phillips and Valentine agree that he was a temperamental player as a minor leaguer, one whose aggressiveness did not always translate into production. Now, his aggressiveness comes in the form of a takeout slide at second base or a strong throw from right field or a hard-fought at-bat. ``All I remember is him getting all heated and me calling New York and saying, `Here's another one,''' Phillips said of his disagreements with Burnitz, which both say resulted in a mutual respect. ``He was a tenacious guy. You see the fire. He plays every at-bat, he battles. Every inning in the outfield, he's in the play. He plays hard on every play. He runs balls out, breaks up double plays. He's a throwback player.'' That's one reason Burnitz said Wednesday that he was enjoying baseball for the first time. His run-ins with Dallas Green, who was the Mets' manager at the time, have been well documented, and playing the last five and a half seasons in Milwaukee did not provide much hope, even though Burnitz hit more than 30 home runs and drove in 98 or more runs the last four seasons. Burnitz was the Brewers' cleanup hitter, a role he fills with the Mets only when Vaughn and Piazza are out of the lineup. ``With all the names on our team, he becomes for other people somewhat of an afterthought,'' Phillips said. ```Oh, Burnitz, too. We got through Vaughn, Piazza, Alfonzo and it's Burnitz, too.' He's the icing on the cake. He's that one that can put the game away, when the other guys get you there.'' That is what he did Wednesday. Piazza drew a two-out walk before Alfonzo singled to drive in the Mets' first run in the first inning. Burnitz followed by lofting a 3-2 hanging changeup down the right-field line, just over the wall and just fair. ``I'm really enjoying baseball for the first time ever, watching this stuff happen over and over again,'' Burnitz said of winning. ``That's what I'm thinking. I'm just having a good time.'' 
