As Spider-Man in Sam Raimi's film, which opens Friday, the vegetarian Tobey Maguire may not fit a steak eater's notion of a superhero, but he seems to come close to what Stan Lee had in mind when he and the artist Steve Ditko rolled out that Marvel Comics action figure in 1962. On a couple of new DVDs, Lee says he wanted the average person to identify with Spider-Man, a k a Peter Parker, which meant giving him more feelings and saddling him with worries about girls, family and friends. ``I gave Peter Parker as many problems as I could,'' Lee says in ``Spider-Man: The Ultimate Villain Showdown,'' released this week on DVD and videocassette by Buena Vista. ``He wasn't a popular kid.'' Some of Parker's vulnerability rubs off on Spider-Man, who has an asthma attack fighting a villain. And there was responsibility. Here was a superhero who used his powers not only to fight evil but also to swing off to get medicine for his ailing Aunt May. ``The most important thing is to do the right thing,'' Lee says. ``You don't have to be the greatest at anything. That young kid with no special power who does right is more of a hero than a superhero.'' If there was any message in the comic strip, he adds, that was it. ``The Ultimate Villain Showdown'' includes several episodes from the 1960s animated television series, with the web slinger in action against the Green Goblin, the Kingpin and others. Lee talks about his work and introduces each episode. He says the animated cartoons are ``a little happier, a little simpler'' than the comics. On the disc Lee says he has written a comic book version of the Raimi movie. On another DVD, ``Stan Lee's Mutants, Monsters &AMP; Marvels,'' to be released May 14 by Columbia TriStar (also on videocassette), he and the director Kevin Smith, a comic book buff, talk about the film and the comics. Lee says that when he conceived the character, he wanted an original. ``With a superhero you need a guy with a new power,'' he says. He saw a fly crawling on a wall. Fly Man didn't work, or Mosquito Man. His boss at Marvel did not like the idea of a spider either, or that the superhero was a teen-ager. That would not be credible, or so it was thought. Now we know otherwise. Smith wonders why it took so long to put Marvel Comics science-fiction figures like Spider-Man and the characters in Brian Singer's ``X-Men'' (2000) onto the big screen. There being no ready answer to that, they move on to Lee's contribution to the Raimi film. Not only did he do a comic book version, but he was also to make an appearance in a cameo. In the scene, which was cut, Lee is selling sunglasses in Times Square when disaster strikes and he runs in panic. On reflection, he says, running didn't do justice to a Stan Lee hero, so he asked to shoot the scene again. This time he was to pick up a little girl and carry her to safety. But he says the girl was too heavy, and he took too long. ``Raimi said, `Stan, if we do it your way, it will be a mini-series,''' Lee says. NEW RELEASES `ALI' As it follows Muhammad Ali (Will Smith) from the first Sonny Liston fight in 1964 through the bout with George Foreman in Zaire in 1974, the first hour of Michael Mann's film has a quick-moving breathlessness. But the film works hard to get past the headlines about the most incendiary fight figure ever by presenting totally different Alis inside and outside the ring. The first is a big man with a sniper's precision, the other an abrasive, magnetic figure full of infectious self-love. In Mann's first movie with feeling, ``his overwhelming love of its subject will turn audiences into exuberant, thrilled fight crowds,'' Elvis Mitchell wrote in The New York Times. 2001. Columbia TriStar. $110.99; DVD, $27.96. 157 minutes. Closed captioned. R. `HAPPENSTANCE' Audrey Tautou may have made a bigger splash in ``Amelie,'' but here she appears to advantage in a quieter, less visually extravagant entertainment that opened in American theaters on the same day last November. Like ``Amelie,'' Laurent Firode's film imagines Paris as a buzzing hive of wistful humanity ruled by accident and fortuity in which the tiniest actions yield complex results. Random circumstance keeps Irene (Tatou) from connecting with possibly the love of her life. But ``Happenstance'' is ``a celebration of the surprises that pop up like sidewalk blossoms through the gray surface of daily life, and it is also one of those surprises'' (A.O. Scott). 2001. New Yorker. $69.95; DVD, $29.95. 97 minutes. French with English subtitles. No rating. `NOT ANOTHER TEEN MOVIE' It is, though. In fact, bits of every teen-age flick ever made (or most of them) come together at John Hughes High School. Basically we have the ugly duckling (Chyler Leigh) who gets a makeover and lands the campus golden boy (Chris Evans). And there's the gorgeous topless foreign student just dying to please all the nerds. There are slavering geeks panting for their first sexual experience and a skimpily clad female student body that acts as raunchily as everybody does in ``American Pie.'' Count on them to lead a ``happy, nasty and frequently hilarious assault on 20 years' worth of youth movies'' (Scott). 2001. Columbia TriStar. $107.99; DVD, $27.96. 82 minutes. Closed captioned. R. `COOL AND CRAZY' Knut Erik Jensen's film is probably the finest documentary ever made about the members of a male choir in a tiny Norwegian fishing village within striking distance of the North Pole. Raising their voices, 30 men from their early 30s to late 90s make the best of lousy fishing, few women and nonstop ice and snowstorms. In the process they draw crowds as big as they get on the edge of nowhere in a film that is ``consistently offbeat and entertaining'' (Dave Kehr). 2001. First Run. $29.95; DVD, $29.95. 89 minutes. Norwegian with English subtitles. No rating. Other new titles of interest, some of which may have had a theater release, appeared on television or been on videocassette or DVD in earlier editions. `NEW WATERFORD GIRL' In Allan Moyle's film, a dreamy, bookish teen-ager (Liane Balaban) living in Cape Breton, Nova Scotia, in the mid-1970s longs to be anywhere else. In this kind of place, thrift dictates that a shotgun wedding at the local church double as a funeral and a riot of mismatched plaids can't dispel the basic grayness. Breaking free from deadening forces isn't exactly a new story, but, A.O. Scott wrote in The New York Times, ``the filmmakers' sense of local color, their springy, disjointed narrative style and a general refusal on the part of the actors to stoop to caricature give this version a freshness and intensity that recall the television series `My So-Called Life' of blessed memory.'' 2001. Wellspring Media. $59.98; DVD, $24.98. 97 minutes. No rating. `THE 2002 OLYMPIC WINTER GAMES' Highlights jump around among the women's figure skating competition won by Sara Hughes, the pairs judging uproar, snowboarding, bobsledding, luge and skeleton, ski jumping and Alpine and cross-country skiing. Ventura Distribution. $14.95; DVD, $19.95. 80 minutes. `FRIENDS' The complete 1994 first season, 24 episodes, on videocassette and DVD includes extra material. The DVD features a producers' commentary on the pilot episode, a tour of the set and a guide to special guest appearances by the likes of George Clooney and Helen Hunt. Warner. $49.98; DVD, $69.98. Release date: April 30. 
