Kevin Weekes said he was born to be a goaltender. ``It was something that was in me,'' Weekes said while reflecting on a career that could be described as a journeyman's odyssey through the National Hockey League. ``Other people might argue differently,'' Weekes said with a pause, ``being that both my parents are from Barbados.'' The 27-year-old Weekes, who is a member of the Carolina Hurricanes and one of 31 minority players in the NHL, would not get an argument from the Devils. He went from backup status to instant celebrity along Tobacco Road last week when he helped the Hurricanes eliminate the Devils in a first-round playoff series. The Hurricanes, who had not won a Stanley Cup playoff series since 1986, when they were the Hartford Whalers and upset the top-seeded Quebec Nordiques, open their second-round series Friday in Raleigh, N.C., against the Montreal Canadiens. For the past five seasons, Weekes had been viewed as the goaltender of the future in five different organizations _ Florida, Vancouver, the Islanders, Tampa Bay and Carolina. ``I'll probably go gray trying to figure it out,'' Weekes said. The players and draft picks for whom Weekes has been traded include Pavel Bure, Felix Potvin and the No.1 overall selection in the 2000 draft. Weekes, who began the season as the backup to Nikolai Khabibulin in Tampa Bay, always seemed to be a valuable commodity to some team in need of goaltending. He was traded to Carolina on March 5. Still, he found himself in an understudy role to Arturs Irbe. Irbe, who stopped 64 of 66 shots to win Games 1 and 2, faltered in Game 3 and was benched after allowing three goals on 12 Devils shots. Weekes hopped off the bench and skated into the crease. The last time Weekes had appeared in a playoff game was in 1993, during his first season in junior hockey. His performance was brief _ he allowed five goals in 26 minutes. Weekes, who had little playoff experience, looked like a playoff veteran against the Devils, stopping 22 of 23 shots. Irbe was shaky in Game 4 and was pulled after allowing two goals on eight shots. Weekes played the final two periods and stopped 13 of 14 shots in a 3-1 loss. In the pivotal Game 5, Carolina coach Paul Maurice made what many considered to be a panic move by benching Irbe. Weekes would be making his first playoff start since he was a 15-year-old junior in Toronto. He was magnificent in front of a raucous home crowd, stopping 40 shots en route to a 3-2 overtime victory that gave the Hurricanes a 3-2 series lead. Weekes refused to call his remarkable performance the best of his career. ``The stage was different, obviously,'' Weekes said. ``But it's not something I just learned to do overnight.'' Nor would Weekes consider the series-turning save on Devils wing John Madden in overtime _ a lunging glove save from the seat of his pants with Madden staring at a gaping expanse of empty net _ his best ever. ``It wasn't extra-terrestrial, or anything,'' Weekes said modestly. Weekes, who later described the save as a lucky stab at catching a fish, conceded it was his most important save ever. In Game 6, Weekes turned aside 32 shots for his first playoff shutout, a 1-0 victory that clinched the playoff series on the Devils' home ice. Earlier this week, Theodore was nominated for both the Hart trophy, awarded annually to the NHL's most valuable player, and the Vezina trophy, awarded annually to the league's best goaltender. Thursday morning, Weekes, who is 6 feet and 195 pounds, was asked by a North Carolina television reporter how it felt to be a sex symbol. Weekes laughed the question off. But anything must feel better than being someone's backup. But that is nothing new to someone who started playing hockey at age 6 because a much older cousin, Ian, was playing the game with his friends. ``My cousin was like my brother,'' Weekes said. ``If I wanted to hang out with those guys, I had to play goalie. You don't really have much say when you're 6 years old and the guys around you are 13, 14.'' His was a curious career choice, considering that most goalies, who subject their bodies to punishment by stopping pucks traveling as fast as 100 miles an hour, are considered to be a little flaky by their peers. ``But, then again, I think I'm a little different in all ways,'' Weekes said with a smile, as he reflected on his heritage. ``Obviously, I'm a nontraditional hockey player, as far as the stereotype goes.'' 
