Eight years ago, Ed Boyd announced to his family that he was leaving city life behind for a life as a farmer. After decades as an urban dweller, the retired corporate marketer was ready to settle down and try his luck raising alpacas. The news shocked his family, but Boyd had made up his mind: he and his wife would leave for the family's 125-acre former dairy upstate within the next year. ``I thought he was crazy,'' said Boyd's son Brandon, a New York City-based corporate lawyer. At that time, Brandon didn't even know what an alpaca was. ``But the more I looked into the alpaca industry, I quickly realized he was onto something.'' Turns out Brandon's father, who now has 60 alpacas on his farm, wasn't crazy after all. He is part of a steadily growing number of farmers in the United States who are raising alpacas, a domesticated cousin of the South American llama and camel, for profit and fun. The huggable alpacas are three feet tall and weigh between 100 and 180 pounds. Ideal farm animals, they are friendly, docile and trainable. Their luxurious fleece, softer than cashmere and lighter than wool, commands top prices and is highly coveted in the fashion world and among textile manufacturers. Today there are more than three million alpacas, mostly found in South American countries such as Peru, Bolivia and Chile. Introduced here from Peru 18 years ago, the United States raises just a small percentage of the world's alpacas, with approximately 17,000 held by 2,500 farmers. The business, in which farmers can make thousands of dollars on the animals and their fleece, is in its infancy, according to Ken Hobert, business manager for the Alpaca Owners and Breeders Association, an organization founded in 1990 that markets and exposes alpacas to the public. But it is taking off quickly, with classes on how to raise alpacas working their way into adult learning centers and animal fairs and auctions all over the country. ``The industry is just on a birth curve and hasn't even in reality really begun,'' said Hobert. ``But there's a lot of growth potential.'' However, the growth rate of the alpaca population in the United States has significantly slowed in the past several years. With the intent of controlling the breeding and growth of the diverse alpaca population, the Alpaca Registry Inc., a Colorado-based nonprofit organization that maintains the most extensive breed and database registry of alpacas in North America, refused in 1998 to register any more alpacas imported from South America. Just like dogs, alpacas are valued by their pedigrees and bloodlines, said Hobert, and almost all alpacas are registered. Any alpaca not registered with the Alpaca Registry Inc. has little market value. Today, the Registry's ban has required most alpaca farmers to breed their animals as well as shear them for their fiber. But because of the animal's slow gestation period -- it takes 11 months for a baby alpaca, or cria, to be born -- it will take years until there are enough alpacas to support mass production of their fiber in a commercial industry, said Hobert. Alpacas are an appealing investment for farmers because they can be insured and farming expenses can be used as tax write-offs. The annual caring cost is approximately $275 per animal and a farmer can raise between five and seven of them on one acre of land. Serious alpaca breeders can make significant profits from selling their alpacas at auction to newcomers in the alpaca business. The animals are a hefty investment: prices for females start at $10,000; for males, $5,000. At a recent auction in Las Vegas, an alpaca was sold for $265,000 -- a world record. But the payback is worth it. After an alpaca's yearly shearing, a farmer can make between $30 and $50 per pound of unprocessed alpaca fiber. A typical female alpaca produces between four and five pounds of fleece a year, while a typical male herdsire will produce between six and seven pounds. Alpaca farming appeals to people in their retirement looking for a second career, to those looking to retreat from city life and to business savvy types such as Doug Caldwell, a former engineer with British Petroleum from Detroit, who is now an alpaca farmer in upstate New York with his wife, Denise. Initially attracted to the friendly animals' teddy-bear-like demeanor, Caldwell discovered they are also easy to care for. He now has 170 alpacas on his farm. Before purchasing crias, Caldwell carefully looks at the genetics of the animals and tracks their reproduction closely, constantly trying to improve the quality of their fleece. For an ambitious farmer like Caldwell, raising and breeding alpacas is a sound and lucrative business investment. ``It's very easy to find your niche in this type of market and work your way to the top,'' said Caldwell, who said that it has taken him, depending on the quality of the alpaca, between two to five years to make back his initial investment in the animals. Most alpaca farmers in the United States own Huacaya alpacas, which have a full coat and a wooly appearance owing to a crimped and dense fleece. Huacayas account for 90 percent of the alpacas registered in the United States. The rare and more valuable Suri alpacas have a more lustrous and majestic appearance because of their straight, dreadlock-like fibers. Once farmers shear the alpacas, most send the fiber to the Alpaca Fiber Cooperative of North America. The cooperative then ships the fiber to various mills in Peru, the United States and Canada where it is manufactured into finished goods such as sweaters, scarves, hats, gloves, blankets and jackets. Alpaca fiber, which comes in 22 natural colors ranging from a pure lustrous white to a dark silver gray, is warmer and stronger than wool, lightweight, nonallergenic and as soft, if not softer, than cashmere. Prices for alpaca products range from a pair of socks for under $20 to coats or suits that are over $1,000, much pricier than lamb's wool. ``The lower priced items tend to be impulse purchases,'' said Karen Dewhirst, general manager of the Alpaca Fiber Cooperative. ``And then we get them hooked on the material and convince them that they can spend the extra money on items such as luxurious sweaters.'' Stephen Kramph, the manager of Beau Brummel, an upscale men's store in New York City, said that many of his clients are drawn to his ``amazingly popular'' line of alpaca clothing. ``The client looking at alpaca overcoats or sweaters is going to buy it as a specialty item,'' said Kramph. ``But you wouldn't build your whole wardrobe around it.'' For most alpaca farmers, however, the joy of the business doesn't necessarily come out of the fancy clothes or hefty profits, but from raising the lovable animals themselves. After having been around them for so many years, Brandon Boyd admits that he has now become thoroughly addicted to alpacas. These days, he splits his time between his office in Manhattan and his family's farm upstate, where he helps his parents tend to their flock. ``I'm a city kid,'' he said. ``My friends think it's the funniest thing in the world that I'm a rancher.'' (EDITORS: There is no charge for use of this story, but please send a tearsheet to Professor Stephen D. Isaacs, Columbia News Service, Graduate School of Journalism, Columbia University, 2950 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10027.) 
