Most scientists blame people, at least in part, for global warming. Now, some researchers say people may be partly to blame for the cooling of Antarctica as well. While average global temperatures have risen about one degree Fahrenheit over the past century, Antarctica over all appears to have cooled slightly in the past few decades. That has been puzzling, because the polar regions are thought to be more sensitive to warming trends than the rest of the globe. Even more puzzling, a small portion of Antarctica that stretches north toward South America defies the cooling trend. It has been warming very rapidly, about five degrees over the past 50 years, 10 times the global average. Writing in Friday's issue of the journal Science, David W.J. Thompson, a professor of atmospheric science at Colorado State University, and Susan Solomon, a senior scientist at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in Boulder, Colo., argue that the ozone hole, which has opened up each spring over Antarctica in recent years, may help explain the contradictory trends. ``Ozone seems to be capable of tickling the Southern Hemisphere patterns,'' Thompson said in an interview. A vortex of winds continually blows around Antarctica, tending to trap cold air at the South Pole. In their paper, Thompson and Solomon show that the winds have strengthened in the past few decades, keeping the cold air even more confined. The peninsula, which lies outside the wind vortex, escapes the cooling effect, the scientists said. They say that the ozone hole may be the cause of the stronger winds. ``That's where we speculate,'' Thompson said, ``and the emphasis is on the word `may.''' (BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) Close to the ground, ozone, a molecule consisting of three oxygen atoms, forms a large and unhealthy component of smog. High in the atmosphere, however, naturally occurring ozone is essential for life, blocking ultraviolet rays that would fatally mangle DNA. Artificial chemicals known as chlorofluorocarbons, or CFCs, once ubiquitous in aerosol spray cans and air-conditioner coolant, cause a chain of reactions that destroy ozone. In September 2000, the ozone hole opened up to a record 17.1 million square miles. With the most damaging CFCs now phased out, the ozone hole is expected to heal over the coming decades. Until it does, however, fewer ozone molecules mean the atmosphere absorbs less ultraviolet radiation. Instead of warming the air, the rays bounce off the snow and ice of Antarctica and reflect back into space. (END OPTIONAL TRIM) Scientists already knew that the ozone hole had cooled the upper atmosphere. Thompson and Solomon show that the troposphere, the lowest six miles of the atmosphere, has also cooled. ``It's a lot of food for thought in there,'' said John E. Walsh, a professor of atmospheric science at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and an author of a paper in Science in January that indicated Antarctica was cooling. Walsh said the data tying the cooling to stronger winds was convincing. ``My one reservation is the link to the ozone,'' he said. He noted that the ozone hole was usually largest in November or December, but that the greatest cooling had been about six months later. Thompson agreed that the ozone hole could not explain the whole climactic picture, and said other influences like ocean currents probably played important roles, too. ``I seriously doubt it's the only player,'' he said. ``I think it's one of many.'' 
