The US International Trade Commission ruled Thursday that subsidized Canadian lumber imports threaten American producers, clearing the way for the Bush administration to impose 27 percent tariffs on the shipments. The duties, which would apply to about $6 billion in annual softwood lumber imports _ a third of the domestic market _ were welcomed by US timber executives and lawmakers, who have long argued that Canada has unfairly aided its timber industry. The duties are expected to be imposed by May 23. The decision was strongly condemned by the Canadian government and US retailers, who warned it could add as much as $1,500 to the price of an average house. Softwood lumber refers to varieties like pine, spruce, and fir that are commonly used in home building. ``This decision was not unexpected, given the protectionist nature of US softwood lumber decisions,'' said Canadian Prime Minister Pierre Pettigrew. ``But that doesn't make it any less damaging. `` Pettigrew said in Ottawa that the Bush administration had not done enough to work out a negotiated settlement. Talks between the two countries broke down in late March. Maine's two Republican Senators, Olympia Snowe and Susan Collins, have been among those arguing for the duties. But the issue is complicated in Maine, due to extensive cross-border trade in lumber. While some mills have gone out of business due to Canadian competition, many landowners depend on so-called border mills in Quebec to process their wood. Some, but not all of those mills would be exempt from the duties. Maine landowners are working with the US Commerce Department and the border mills to try to secure more exemptions. The decision came even as President Bush was meeting with officials of the European Union and other nations to discuss a host of contentious issues, including a recent White House decision to impose hefty tariffs on imported steel. Bush Thursday also endorsed a new farm subsidy bill that EU officials said violated international trade rules. The ITC on a 4-0 vote Thursday ruled that US producers were threatened by the imports, but had not already suffered damage. That means Canadian mills, which have been paying into a special fund since last August, may be eligible for a rebate of about $760 million. The question should be settled by mid-month when the commission submits its complete findings to the Commerce Department. In March, the Commerce Department called for an average of 29 percent tariffs on Canadian lumber, which it later reduced to 27 percent. The decision was based on a yearlong investigation that found Canada charged less than fair-market value for wood harvested from government-owned lands. The Commerce Department's proposed duties could not take effect, however, unless the International Trade Commission determined American producers were harmed. US producers Thursday asked the Bush adminsitration to quickly impose the tariffs, saying Canadian producers would try to ship as much wood as possible befor the duties took effect. ``We understand the motives of our friends up north. The Canadian governments want to see their lumber industry and workers thrive, but it should not be at our expense,'' said Rusty Wood, chairman of the Coalition for Fair Lumber Imports, which represents US companies and landowners. The Canadian government, which has strenuously contested the US action, said it would proceed with its challenge at the World Trade Organization. Canada is fighting the action under the North American Free Trade Agreement as well. Weyerhaeuser Co., which has extensive lumber operations in both the United States and Canada, also wants NAFTA action to reverse the duties. ``The ITC's 4-0 vote . . . represents a blow for free trade that will create windfall gains for timber barons at the expense of American home buyers, said Bobby Rayburn, a Mississippi homebuilder who is vice president of the National Association of Home Builders. Sue Kirchhoff can be reached at kirchhoff(at)globe.com. 
