A day after Israeli opposition killed plans for a U.N. fact-finding mission into the Israeli army's disputed attack on this refugee camp, a weeklong investigation by an American rights group found that Palestinian claims of hundreds of civilian deaths here are exaggerated. But the report, the most authoritative to date, also contains conclusions beneficial to the Palestinians in the international furor surrounding just what occurred here. For instance, it found what it described as evidence that Israeli forces used civilians to walk protectively in front of them throughout the incursion; destroyed more houses than needed for ``any conceivable military purpose''; and blocked the passage of ambulances and relief groups to the camp for 11 days. The document, based on more than 100 interviews and written by Human Rights Watch, a group that is generally considered fair-minded, concluded that those actions, among others, constituted ``strong prima facie evidence'' that Israeli soldiers ``committed grave breaches of the Geneva Conventions, or war crimes'' and called for further investigation by Israeli or international bodies. In interviews with The New York Times Thursday, four Palestinian men featured in the report described being forced to walk down streets in front of Israeli soldiers as they advanced through the camp. They also said the soldiers, apparently fearing ambushes and booby traps, had sent them to enter houses and open closets and drawers inside. Two other men interviewed Thursday described being blindfolded and made to stand in a window while Israeli soldiers fired rifles over their shoulders. ``There was another guy who was standing beside me who was crying,'' said Kamal Tawalbi, whose 14-year-old son was also detained. ``After I heard him, I recognized it was my son.'' The Human Rights Watch senior researcher who led the project, Peter Bouckaert, said: ``We have no doubt that extremely serious violations of the laws of war were committed. The evidence is certainly strong enough to warrant a war crimes investigation.'' Yet the inquiry may well be the last of its kind _ especially since Secretary-General Kofi Annan's decision Wednesday to disband the fact-finding team. Israeli officials disputed every critical finding in the report, saying that no civilians were used as human shields, that Palestinian booby-traps forced Israeli forces to bulldoze homes and that Palestinian ambulances were used to smuggle people out of the camp. They said Israeli forces took extraordinary risks not to endanger civilians in a measured attack on the camp that they say produced 28 suicide bombers, more than any other West Bank city. ``It bears asking when a country is fighting a war against terror how is it that those who are engaged in fighting terrorists come under criticism, while the perpetrators of the terror are not subject to scrutiny.'' said Lt. Col. Olivier Rafowicz, an Israeli military spokesman. Palestinian officials, furious over the scuttling of the U.N. team, say the opposite is true. Chairman Yasser Arafat has started referring to the fight as ``Jeningrad,'' an allusion to the World War II siege of Leningrad. Based on the number of bodies recovered nearly three weeks after gunfire ceased, the report found that 23 Israelis and at least 48 Palestinians were killed during the attack on the camp, a square-kilometer warren with 14,000 residents. Four others were killed when the army seized control of Jenin town, which surrounds it. At least 18 of the Palestinian dead were civilians, including women, children, the elderly and the disabled, according to the report. At least 27 of them were fighters. The report predicted that the Palestinian total was unlikely to increase sharply as excavations continue. U.N. officials say only a half-dozen people have been reported to them as missing. Bouckaert, the rights investigator, said that in 2001 and earlier this year, Human Rights Watch had found what he called evidence of Israeli forces' using Palestinians as shields. He maintained that his group was not singling out the Israelis for criticism, and that it had also investigated the Palestinian Authority's failure to punish suspected terrorists and was now investigating suicide bombings. That practice, the group says, is a crime against humanity because it involves intentionally attacking civilians. But he said Jenin was the scene of the most flagrant Israeli abuses in eighteen months of renewed violence. ``The failure of the IDF to instill discipline in its troops at a lesser level, at an earlier stage in the conflict,'' Bouckaert said, ``has directly contributed to a culture where certain unlawful practices have become acceptable.'' Israeli officials said they ``completely reject'' allegations that Palestinians were used to protect Israeli soldiers. ``If any party is to be blamed for using civilians as human shields,'' Rafowicz said, ``it is the Palestinian terrorists who used the refugee camp as a center for terror.'' (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.) The group also described what it called evidence of excessive Israeli force in the firing of missiles into the camp from helicopters; the failure to warn civilians adequately that their houses would be demolished; and the shooting of a small number of prisoners, sometimes out of fear that they carried bombs. . But the group said it had found no evidence that Israeli forces removed bodies from the camp or buried them in mass graves. Bouckaert said the excessive destruction of civilian property in the camp _ something also barred under international humanitarian law _ should also be investigated. Israeli bulldozers flattened 140 houses and rendered another 200 uninhabitable, leaving 4,000 homeless, he said. Israeli officials responded that the 140 houses represent only about 10 percent of the houses in the camp and that destroying them was therefore not excessive. 
