``With great power comes great responsibility.'' It's a line that's repeated numerous times in Sam Raimi's perfectly adequate adaptation of ``Spider-Man,'' and you can't help but believe that the thought resonated deeply with the director himself. That's because ``Spider-Man,'' for all the charms of its cast and occasional intrigue of its story, feels like a bland, watered-down product of a corporate vision, designed primarily to be the safe, sadly responsible start of a summer movie franchise. In that sense, ``Spider-Man'' is more or less like most other summer movies -- fast, loud and out-of-control. What sets it apart is the presence of Tobey Maguire, who gives the movie a heart and humanity typically lacking in comic-book epics. In fact, as long as the film concentrates on Maguire and not the costumed superhero (which is the case for its first hour), it is on solid ground. Unfortunately, the filmmakers seem skittish about the prospect of focusing too much on Spidey's nerdy alter-ego, Peter Parker, without lobbing a bunch of loud, lumbering action set pieces our way. The movie's special effects are largely a disappointment. Unable to really convey what a thrill it would be for Spider-Man to swing from New York skyscraper to skyscraper on a web rope, Raimi ultimately caves and settles for a standard good-vs.-evil scenario that is conservatively derivative and generally dully rendered. With a little guts and imagination, the movie could have been a lot more fun. The action opens with Maguire stating in a voice-over that ``this story is all about a girl.'' And indeed Maguire's dweebish, orphaned Peter Parker has harbored a deep, unrequited love for his next-door-neighbor, the red-headed Mary Jane Watson (Kirsten Dunst, winning as always), since elementary school. He's too shy to do anything about it, but he can't stop thinking about her, either. Peter's image as an outcast changes when, during a class field trip, he's bitten by a genetically designed ``super spider.'' The next morning, Peter awakens and finds his vision is markedly improved, his physique is newly buff, and he can spin sticky web from his hands. Peter's process of discovery provides most of the movie's best moments, with Maguire perfect as the sweet-natured introvert who relishes his new powers with the proper mixture of awe and vulnerability. His work provides a note of subtlety in a movie that -- adhering to genre expectations -- typically goes for the obvious over the understated. The second half of the film focuses on Spider-Man's battle with another mutant -- the Green Goblin (Willem Dafoe, trying a little too hard). Like Spidey, the Goblin is a human being who came by his powers through freaky genetics. But the Goblin, aka corporate arms manufacturer Norman Osborn, believes that heroics are for suckers. His ultimate aim is unclear. Mostly, the filmmakers simply need him to blow things up. And that's where the movie settles for the routine. Raimi, working from a screenplay credited to David Koepp (but fiddled with by countless others), has by no means butchered the franchise. There will be other ``Spider-Man'' movies, and, who knows, maybe one of them will be inspired. Having Maguire and Dunst at least provides a solid foundation. If the filmmakers can use their great power (and huge budgets) to create something that transcends the predictable, then we'll raise a toast to responsible custodianship. But we'll hold the glasses for now. --- SPIDER-MAN (2 1/2 stars) (Rated PG-13: stylized violence and action) -Starring: Tobey Maguire, Kirsten Dunst, Willem Dafoe. -Director: Sam Raimi. -Running time: 2 hr. 1 min. 
