Hiroko Shimbo looks at the cellophane envelope of dried Japanese kelp, called kombu, in a local market. And then the next and the next. ``These are all brown. They're supposed to be green,'' she says. Once we find decent kelp, we will make the broth called dashi, which is the central ingredient of Japanese cuisine. Dashi, made from a quick extraction of the kelp and shavings of sun-dried bonito, figures into just about every sauce, soup and glaze in the traditional Japanese repertory. Most home cooks in Japan use ``hondashi,'' a dehydrated and granulated product that is filled with chemicals and salt. I keep hondashi at home for the times I make miso soup or tempura dipping sauce. But Shimbo will have nothing to do with it. And as she has written the best Japanese cookbook in ages _ ``The Japanese Kitchen'' (Harvard Common Press, $16.95) _ I'm willing to defer to her judgment. And so we are off to a metro Atlanta farmers market, where the kelp is as fresh looking as the produce. Shimbo immediately perks up when she sees the section of Japanese products. ``Now everyone in Atlanta can make Japanese food,'' she says, smiling. She is a lovely woman with a precision-engineered look: Her lips are a crimson gash, her bangs cut straight across her forehead and her eyeliner curls up just so in the corners. She is also a well-known presence on the cooking-teacher circuit. Originally from Tokyo, she teaches from her home base in Manhattan and frequently travels throughout the country and the world illuminating the mysteries of one of the world's most emulated but least understood cuisines. Shimbo's cookbook appeared quietly in 2000, and though it hasn't been a huge award winner or media event, it is the only credible and thorough Japanese cooking primer published since Shizuo Tsuji's ``Japanese Cooking: A Simple Art'' came out in 1980 (with a lengthy forward by M.F.K. Fisher, who felt that Americans poorly understood the greatness of the Japanese kitchen). Japanese cuisine doesn't translate easily, and Shimbo begins her book with detailed glossaries describing ingredients (fresh ginkgo nuts, trefoil leaves), cooking techniques (rolling cucumbers in salt to brighten their skins, cutting carrot flowers) and equipment (a clay-ridged bowl for grinding sesame seeds, a square omelet skillet, an adjustable-screw pickling pot). She spends a great deal of time describing food products and their artisanal origins before segueing into recipes. Shimbo is a traditionalist who has little patience for fusion. ``I like good fusion cooking, but that's so rare. I'd rather just have a properly cooked piece of roast chicken.'' Even so, the subhead of her book's title is ``250 Recipes in a Traditional Spirit,'' which means not always to-the-letter traditional. She will puree edemame soybeans with feta cheese and yogurt for dip, or modify a recipe for steamed bean pastry into a steamed chocolate cake. And many Japanese recipes date to the late 19th century, when Japan embarked on a massive modernization program. Meat was introduced to the diet, as were Western cooking methods like deep frying. It is for one such recipe Shimbo and I are making dashi. We're planning to mix our dashi in a Frisbee-sized savory pancake called okonomiyaki. The dashi is mixed with flour and shredded cabbage, spooned over thin-sliced meat or shellfish and cooked until golden brown. Before serving, it is basted in a sauce like thick Worcestershire and topped with powdered seaweed, pickled ginger and flakes of dried fish that shimmy from the heat. If you are eating it anywhere near Osaka, it will also sport several decisive squirts of Kewpie Doll mayonnaise from a bulbous, plastic doll bottle. Okonomiyaki is like pizza in spirit _ a dish that is fun to eat with a group and that tastes best late at night with a cold beer. Specialty restaurants are often found near train stations or in crowded shopping and entertainment arcades. In smaller ones, a cook-owner stands behind a teppan griddle (the same cooktop you find in Japanese steakhouses here) and takes orders. In larger ones, the teppan griddles are set throughout the room, and customers mix, pour and cook their own pancakes. The name means ``grilled as you like it,'' and you get your choice of shrimp, squid, beef or pork for garnish. Every major city has its version and special quirks. In Hiroshima, the pancake batter is topped with a layer of noodles, and there are more than 3,000 okonomiyaki joints specializing in this style. In the Osaka region, not only do cooks slather mayonnaise on the top, but they wouldn't dream of preparing the batter without tenkasu, the crunchy crumbs of errant deep-fried tempura batter. In Tokyo, the okonomiyaki is thinner and flimsier in texture. Once we have all the ingredients, it is only a matter of a few minutes to assemble the okonomiyaki. Shimbo is a hands-on cook who wastes no time finding the sharpest knife and least-warped cutting board in my kitchen. As she flips the massive brown pancake with two spatulas, she says, ``This is a lot of fun to make at a family barbecue. It's so easy, and everybody loves it.'' We all certainly do. Here are the ingredients you'll need to get at an Asian food shop: Kombu: Dried kelp, used as a soup base. Katsuo-bushi: Shaved, dried bonito, used for making dashi. If you don't want to deal with fish flakes, then use water in the recipe. Shimbo would rather you never learn about instant dashi. Yama-imo: A long tuber with white flesh and brown skin. Usually sold in 4- to 6-inch lengths, wrapped in plastic. Okonomiyaki sauce: The Otafuku brand, which comes in a squeeze bottle, is good. If you can't find it, look for tonkatsu sauce, which is essentially the same thing used as a dip for cutlets. Ao-nori: Powdered nori seaweed (the same kind used to wrap sushi). It comes in a small glass jar. If you can't find it, crumble sheets of crisp nori. Benishoga: Pickled red ginger, which comes in brine in a plastic tub or glass jar. The flavor is sharper and less sweet than gari, the pink pickled ginger served with sushi. Japanese mayonnaise: Kewpie Doll is the common brand of this tart mayo that comes in a plastic squeeze bottle. I use it all the time for sandwiches because I like the sharper flavor. John Kessler writes for The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. E-mail: jkessler(at)ajc.com MAIN DISH Okonomiyaki Makes 2 servings Preparation time: 10 minutes Cooking time: 25 minutes Pancake ingredients: 3 tablespoons grated yama-imo (Japanese mountain taro, see directions for grating below), preferably, or 2 tablespoons potato starch 1 1/4 cups cake flour 1 cup dashi (Japanese fish broth) or water Large pinch salt 3 1/2 ounces shredded cabbage (about 1/8 small head) 1/4 cup thin green onion rings (optional) 2 eggs 2 tablespoons vegetable oil, divided Garnish of choice: 6 - 8 shrimp, peeled, deveined and butterflied or 3 ounces thinly sliced pork loin or 3 ounces thinly sliced beef sirloin Toppings: About 1/2 cup Japanese tonkatsu or okonomiyaki sauce 1 to 2 tablespoons ao-nori seaweed powder 2 tablespoons benishoga (pickled red ginger shreds) 1/4 cup finely shredded katsuo-bushi fish flakes (optional) Japanese mayonnaise, to taste (optional) If using yama-imo, wrap a box grater twice in plastic wrap. Set the grater over a cutting board or plate. Grate the yama-imo against the large holes; it will fall to the front in a very slimy mass. Set aside. Sift the flour into a bowl. Add the dashi, salt and grated yama-imo and mix. Add the shredded cabbage and green onion rings and mix well. Divide batter into two bowls. Add 1egg to each, but do not mix. Heat a large skillet. Add 1 tablespoon of the vegetable oil and swirl to coat the entire bottom. Add half the garnish and toss quickly to saute. Arrange in the center of the pan. Mix the egg into the batter in one bowl with a spoon, then pour it over the garnish. Spread the batter into a disc about 6 to 7 inches in diameter. Cook the pancake over medium heat until the bottom is golden. Turn the pancake over with the aid of two spatulas, press it to flatten the bottom, and cook until the other side is golden. With a pastry brush, spread some of the sauce over the surface of the pancake. Sprinkle half of the nori, pickled ginger and bonito flakes, if you're using them, on top, and transfer the pancake to a plate. Add the reserved oil to the pan, and prepare the second pancake in the same way as the first. Cut each pancake into six pieces, like a pizza, and serve hot. Per serving: 638 calories (percent of calories from fat, 29), 25 grams protein, 85 grams carbohydrates, 5 grams fiber, 21 grams fat, 235 milligrams cholesterol, 2,240 milligrams sodium.Per serving: 638calories (percent of calories from fat, 29), 25 grams protein, 85 grams carbohydrates, 5 grams fiber, 21 grams fat, 235 milligrams cholesterol, 2240 milligrams sodium. CONDIMENT Dashi Makes 2 quarts Preparation time: 5 minutes Cooking time: 10 minutes 6-inch lengths kombu (kelp) 2 quarts water 1 cup tightly packed katsuo-bushi(bonito fish flakes) Wipe the kombu with a damp cotton cloth or paper towel. In a large pot, bring the water and kombu almost to a boil over medium heat. This should take about 10 minutes. Immediately before the water reaches a boil, remove the kombu. Add the katsuo-bushi all at once. Wait 10 seconds or until the liquid comes to a boil. Then turn off the heat, skim off any foam, and let the mixture stand for 2 minutes. Strain the stock through a sieve lined with cheesecloth or a paper towel. Discard the fish flakes and kombu. Refrigerate the stock for up to 4 days. Per serving: 21 calories, 5 grams protein, no carbohydrates, no fiber, no fat, no cholesterol, 370 milligrams sodium. Per serving: 21calories, 5 grams protein, no carbohydrates, no fiber, no fat, no cholesterol, 370 milligrams sodium. Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
