NATIONAL NEWS IN BRIEF  c.2002 New York Times News Service 	PLAINS 	SOUTH DAKOTA: MORE ARRESTS FOR HIV EXPOSURE 	The police have arrested two more men on charges of having unprotected sex when they knew they were infected with the AIDS virus. One of the men, James Lee Woods, 41, was charged with four counts of HIV exposure involving three men. The other, William Kenneth Jenigen, 35, was charged with exposure that involved three people. The two, who lived together in Aberdeen, could face up to 15 years in prison for each charge if they are convicted. A college student in Huron was arrested last week on similar charges. 	MIDWEST 	ILLINOIS: 15 YEARS FOR CORRUPT DETECTIVE 	A former Chicago chief of detectives was sentenced in federal court to 15 years and eight months in prison for masterminding a jewel theft ring after pleading guilty to racketeering last October. Hanhardt has also been ordered to pay $5 million in restitution. Prosecutors had sought a sentence of 25 years for Hanhardt. His ring robbed eight jewelry salesmen in the 1980s and 1990s. 	EDUCATION 	AMHERST PRESIDENT RESIGNS 	AMHERST, Mass. _ Tom Gerety, president of Amherst College since 1994, announced he would resign on June 30, 2003. Gerety, 55, said that most of the projects undertaken in his tenure _ including the raising of $270 million over five years that ended in June 2001 _ were ``either completed or nearing completion,'' and that it was a ``good time to make the transition from one president to the next.'' 	WASHINGTON 	DISPUTE OVER TRADE BILL 	Republicans threatened to kill a trade bill being considered by the Senate after Democrats inserted a provision that would assist steelworkers who lost their health insurance when their employers went bankrupt. Sen. Tom Daschle, the Democratic majority leader, called the measure a ``bridge'' for the workers while Congress debated how to deal with the problem. Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, said he would use Senate rules to block the bill. 	ARMY INVESTIGATES LOBBYING EFFORT 	The Army inspector general was told to examine whether Army personnel had tried to challenge civilian authority by improperly enlisting Congress to try to save an $11 billion artillery program. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld expressed anger that someone in the Army's legislative liaison office might have faxed ``talking points'' defending the Crusader automated howitzer program to Capitol Hill shortly after the service was told it had 30 days to study alternatives if the program were canceled. 
