They filed into the rickety old brick gymnasium one at a time, like a caravan of fans at an Indiana high school game in 1950. By the time Yao Ming stepped on the court he was not merely a Chinese national treasure. In a Webcam world, he had become a piece of basketball folklore more talked about than seen. From Pat Riley to ``News at 11'' anchors, they all heard about this big kid from far away, even saw him on TV a couple of times. But they had to see for themselves what all the fuss was about _ a 7-foot-5 center who runs like a deer and whose shot is silkier than Hugh Hefner's bathrobe. One of the first to weigh in was Zeke from Cabin Creek, W.Va. ``This guy is big, but he's a more of a finesse player at this point and time,'' declared Jerry West, the Memphis Grizzles' new president for basketball operations. He said he thought Yao, expected to be among the top three picks, would be drafted in the ``top five or six players'' this June. When asked if he thought Yao is the kind of player franchises could be built around, West, architect of the Los Angeles Lakers for the past two-plus decades, replied, ``I don't know about that.'' Quentin Richardson then disrespected Yao's game. Everybody was huddling around Richardson, the Clippers guard and Chicago native, as if he could distill what all the politically correct general managers could not. ``I don't think he'll be a big concern,'' Richardson said. ``I'm used to seeing big guys like that get dunked on. If we play, we'll be making bets on who's going to get him.'' Nice. Beautiful. A 22-year-old travels halfway across the world, braves annoying team doctors pulling on his limbs, hits a bevy of jump shots and shows he has a bit of a drop-step move, and we say, ``Now go home.'' You wanted to take Richardson aside and say, ``Yo, Q, you guys finished behind the Jazz, and you're watching the playoffs from your couch, right?'' Or explain to West that Shaquille O'Neal is not your average NBA center. But you knew what was happening in their reluctance to embrace Yao. After all, the Grizzlies had been denied permission to privately work Yao out, even though the Grizzlies will have one of the top picks. Why pump up a player who will never be yours? And Richardson is probably like a lot of NBA players who grew up honing his game on a playground. With Dirk Nowitzki, Peja Stojakovic and 19-year-old Tony Parker leading a cast of talented foreigners running some of them out of the league, he needs to stand up for his country's sagging hoop reputation. No, why were 65 team executives, 150 credentialed journalists and another 100 or so onlookers really there at Loyola University's Alumni Hall Wednesday? They were longing for a big man to change the game or at least match up with O'Neal. P.J. Carlesimo ran the workout, putting Yao through a round-the-horn shooting drill. Yao dropped in four of five shots from the baseline, four of five off the glass from 18 feet. His touch was pillowy soft. At times, he made so many in a row he looked like he was playing Pop-a-Shot at a sports bar. He ran sprints, went end-to-end, handling the ball well before laying it in. He converted drop-step moves into powerful dunks. On the flip side, Yao looked tired and a little thin in the upper body. Will he be a serviceable pivot his first two seasons? Yes. Can he be an All-Star? Definitely. Is he a future Hall of Famer? Probably not, but then what center besides O'Neal is? Yao did not speak to the news media. Privately, Chinese and NBA officials were worried that he or his entourage could say something that would be perceived as hurtful to the goal of having him play abroad. Before the workout ended, a five-paragraph statement from Yao was released. ``It's been a dream of mine to play in the NBA ever since the first time I saw a game on TV many years ago,'' it began. ``To almost touch that dream today fills me with a sense of joy that words simply cannot describe.'' He humbly thanked everyone, mentioning, ``I hope I have not disappointed you with my performance today.'' Proving he and his handlers have been well-schooled in marketing, he also said he planned to take every member of the news media out to dinner, adding, ``But the check is on you if your reporting makes me look bad.'' The scene around Yao could have been taken from a bad ``Rocky'' sequel. The foreigner with the crew cut and mysterious past comes to America to show off his wares before hyperbolic journalists hanging over a running track in the gym's upper level, pointing their cameras at his head. The stone-faced executives sit below, taking stock of his every movement and mannerism. Even Yao's entrance _ he walked in from the far corner of the gymnasium _ looked scripted. Remember the Russian fighter in ``Rocky IV,'' Ivan Drago? The only element from the plot missing was a semidecent American to challenge him. His combatant for the day finally made his way across the court to shake hands with Yao. His name was Chris Christoffersen, the 7-2 center from Oregon, who was not invited to the league's pre-draft camp. Christoffersen is Danish. ``There's some good American-born centers,'' he said. ``Look at Shaq.'' He was asked to name another. ``Uh, Patrick. He's good.'' Patrick Ewing is from Jamaica. When you think Yao, think somewhere between Jack Sikma and Rik Smits, with a little Bob Lanier mixed in. He will not change the game, but he will make it better. And at his position, that's a step in the right direction. Hey, he beats Marcus Camby in a designer suit _ or Frederic Weis in Spain. 
