WORLD BUSINESS NEWS IN BRIEF  c.2002 New York Times News Service 	BRITAIN: DEALING WITH CABLE DEBTS 	NTL, a large British cable company, reached an agreement with its lending banks on a reorganization that would give bondholders control of the company, said its chief executive, Barclay Knapp. The holders of about half the face value of NTL bonds agreed to the plan earlier this month. Under the terms of the agreement, bondholders would swap $10.6 billion in debt for equity. Some NTL subsidiaries incorporated in the United States will file for bankruptcy protection on May 6, to better allow the company to reorganize its operations. Separately, Telewest Communications, another British cable company, said it would eliminate 1,500 jobs, or 14 percent of its work force. Telewest said it lost 166 million pounds ($243 million) in the first quarter. Analysts have long speculated that Telewest may follow in NTL's footsteps and restructure its debts. 	BRITAIN: SHELL'S PROFIT FALLS 	The Royal Dutch/Shell Group reported a 42 percent drop in first quarter profit, amid a slump in energy prices. Net income fell to $2.26 billion, compared with $3.89 billion a year earlier. That translated into earnings per share of 74 cents at the Royal Dutch Petroleum Co. and 6.5 pence at Shell Transport &AMP; Trading. Rivals such as BP and the Exxon Mobil Corp. have recently reported steep slides in first quarter profit, reflecting the slowing economy's weakened demand for oil and natural gas. Royal Dutch/Shell said it was proceeding with a cost cutting program that would help it meet growth targets in a difficult environment. 	SWITZERLAND: INTEREST RATE CUT 	Concerned over a run-up in the Swiss franc's value, the Swiss central bank reduced its benchmark interest rate by half a percentage point, to 1.25 percent. The franc, which had been trading at seven-month highs, weakened after the cut, falling to 1.4583 to the euro and 1.6097 to the dollar. The central bank said the strong franc had threatened to dampen economic growth in Switzerland's export-dependent economy. Separately, the European Central Bank left its rates unchanged. 	CANADA: JOB CUTS AT AT&AMP;T 	AT&AMP;T Canada said Thursday that it was cutting its workforce by 1,000 people, or about one-fifth. The troubled Toronto-based company, which has debts of 4.7 billion Canadian dollars, also said it had reached a new agreement with bank lenders to pay for its business plans through late 2003. Its first-quarter loss was 157.6 million Canadian dollars, a slight improvement on last year, mostly because of lower amortization expenses. Revenue was 1 percent lower at 383.8 million Canadian dollars. AT&AMP;T Canada, 31 percent owned by the AT&AMP;T Corp., is awaiting a critical regulatory ruling, expected later this month, on complaints against high access network charges levied by Canada's two biggest phone companies, Bell Canada and Telus Corp. John McLennan, AT&AMP;T's chief executive, said AT&AMP;T would ``re-calibrate'' its business plan after the ruling. 	GLOBAL TRADE: MODEST GROWTH SEEN IN 	World trade, which contracted sharply last year, will resume growing this year, though only at a 1 percent pace, the World Trade Organization forecast in its annual report. Global trade in goods grew 12 percent in 2000 but retreated by 4 percent last year, the worst since 1982, largely because of the slump in technology industries, especially in the United States and Asia. 
