It is found from row houses in Amsterdam to cottages in the Dutch countryside. Sometimes it's tucked away in cupboards, though often it's kept in plain sight on the coffee table. It is sold everywhere from pharmacies to corner stores and shipped by mail everywhere else. Most Dutch like to sneak a little after dinner, and when they travel outside the country, they're always sure to bring enough to last the entire trip. Drop, the Dutch licorice candy, is the Netherlands' national addiction. Coming in more than 50 different shapes, tastes and textures, and made by at least 10 different companies, it is the one thing Dutch expatriates seem to miss most from their homeland. In Holland, Drop (rhymes with rope) is eaten by about 80 percent of the country's 16 million residents, who consume about 31 million kilograms, or 68 million pounds, every year. Drop does not at all resemble or taste like American red or black licorice and the repertoire of unusual flavors, such as honey, menthol and even salt, make Dutch Drop a somewhat acquired taste. ``I have tried to feed Drop to Americans, Indians, Japanese, Chinese and a dozen other nationalities and none of them would have anything to do with it,'' said Rob Barends, a computer consultant from Rotterdam who has been living in Texas since 1980. ``I think you will never like Drop as much as a Dutchman if you didn't get it first when you were very young.'' In the Netherlands, many believe that Drop's popularity has to do with the fact that people are exposed to it as toddlers, when their palates are open to new tastes. Making dropwater, by dissolving pieces of licorice in water, is something Dutch kids do for fun. And the soft, chewy dropjes (plural for drop), especially those shaped like coins or farm animals, form the beginnings of a lifelong obsession. ``Drop is addictive,'' said Ernst Schrama, who lives in Rotterdam with his wife and two children. ``There is no way out once you've started.'' Schrama says he can easily put away a pack of Drop while driving or watching TV. But avoiding the temptation altogether is nearly impossible: throughout Holland, there are about 80,000 places to make a purchase. During visits home, Barends, like many expatriates, always returns with a big bag. Drop is sold in many different countries, such as England, Sweden and South Africa, but in the United States, the only places to buy drop are from the 20 or so mail order companies that specialize in Dutch licorice. No matter where you shop, though, no mail order company carries as many different kinds of drop as found throughout the Netherlands, nor do any carry the fresh, bag-your-own varieties found in Dutch pharmacies. Having a friend mail it can be tricky, as customs agents always want to inspect it and often toss it out because of the loose packaging. Barends recently began making a 25-mile trek outside of Houston to get his fix at The Little Dutch Girl, a Dutch specialty shop. It carries 12 varieties of Drop but only one of Barends' ``staple'' Drop flavors, Limburgse katjes: a semi-hard, semi-sweet Drop, shaped like sitting cats. The Drop journey begins with dried licorice root, which has a higher concentration of sweetness than sugar cane. The roots are mixed with water to form a pulp that is then heated, processed into a syrupy extract and poured into molds. The result is block-Drop, the main ingredient of Drop, which is also used to sweeten cigarettes and pills. Block-Drop is processed into many different textures of Drop, from very soft, almost paste-like Drop to jaw breaker-hard pieces, and into six main flavor categories. First, there is the pure licorice flavor, which is naturally sweet. Then, there are sweet flavors of Drop, such as a honey-flavored Drop that is shaped like a beehive or one coated with granules of sugar, like a gumdrop. Salty Drop comes three ways, mild, medium and double-salted. Barends said that some people really get hooked on the double-salted Drop, as it tends to curb their appetite for sugar. ``It's like taking a sip of the North Sea,'' he said. Drop is not just consumed for pleasure, but for its supposed healing properties as well. Doctors in the Netherlands have been known to prescribe salty Drop for patients with low blood pressure. And aficionados claim that a little salty Drop, much like gargling with warm salt water, will sooth a sore throat ``like nothing else'' and is also great at stopping a cough. When GABA/Wybert International, an oral care company, became a sponsor of Joop van de Ende theater productions (producers of the ``Big Brother'' TV series), they started handing out little bags of Wybert Drop lozenges before the performance and during intermission. The result, producers claim, was a completely cough-free audience. Since the times of the ancient Egyptians, Greeks and Romans, licorice root has been known to aid digestion, which is why Barends likes to have a little at night. Be it medicinal or, most likely, just habit, it's a rare Dutchman who doesn't reach for the Drop as the nonalcoholic nightcap. ``As the last thing of the day,'' said Barends, ``I like to eat some Drop.'' (EDITORS: There is no charge for use of this story, but please send a tearsheet to Professor Stephen D. Isaacs, Columbia News Service, Graduate School of Journalism, Columbia University, 2950 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10027.) 
