The Senate voted 94-2 and the House vote was 352-21. Twenty-nine House members voted ``present'' to indicate support for Israel, but opposition to what they called a ``one-sided'' measure drafted by House Majority Whip Tom DeLay, R-Texas. And 32 members did not vote. GOP House leaders had earlier this week agreed to put off a vote as a gesture of goodwill toward President Bush. But because Senate Democrats said Wednesday that they planned to go ahead with their vote, the race was on between the parties to prove which was more pro-Israel _ and perhaps more worthy of the Jewish community's generous campaign contributions. ``Let every terrorist know, the American people will never abandon freedom, democracy, or Israel,'' DeLay said Thursday. ``America will never permit the state of Israel to fall to aggression.'' American Jews make up only 2.5 percent of the population, but are disproportionately active at the polls and in campaign funding _ largely in support of Democrats. This year, Republicans from the religious right have been particularly supportive of Israel, blaming Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat for a stream of suicide bombings that have blown apart restaurants and nightclubs, killing hundreds of civilian Israelis. GOP leaders' visceral disgust for those actions _ which they equate to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the United States _ was drafted into the strongly worded resolution passed Thursday. The measure states that the House ``condemns the ongoing support of terror by Yasser Arafat and other members of the Palestinian leadership ... and is gravely concerned that Arafat's actions are not those of a viable partner for peace.'' By contrast, the Senate resolution does not mention Arafat and attempts to be more sympathetic toward the plight of Palestinians. Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., said he would have preferred to see Arafat identified by name in the Senate measure, although the sentiments of the resolution's Democrat and Republican sponsors were strongly pro-Israel. ``Israel has been under siege ... from a systematic and deliberate campaign of suicide and homicide attacks by terrorists,'' said Sen. Joseph Lieberman, D-Conn. ``Their essence is identical to the attacks on our country of Sept. 11.'' He sponsored the measure with Sen. Gordon Smith, R-Ore. Both the House and Senate measures, although not legally binding, said the United States and Israel are ``now engaged in a common struggle against terrorism.'' Pro-Arab groups say both resolutions are counterproductive because they prove the United States has a strong bias for Israel and is not an honest, balanced broker of peace in the Middle East. ``In both cases it's the wrong message at the wrong time,'' said James Zogby, director of the Arab American Institute. ``Actions like this have consequences.'' He said one consequence will be the association of the U.S. leadership with the Israeli military attacks against the Palestinian people and infrastructure. But it's the House measure, and recent remarks by House Majority Leader Dick Armey, R-Texas, that have caused the most anger among Arab groups. ``I'm content to have Israel grab the entire West Bank,'' Armey said on MSNBC Wednesday night, referring to Palestinian territories that many, including Bush, believe will eventually become a sovereign Palestinian state. Armey added that he was content to have a Palestinian ``homeland'' somewhere near Israel, and that an Arab nation could provide the land. But following his appearance on ``Hardball,'' Armey sought to soften his words, issuing the following statement: ``I left the impression that I believe peaceful Palestinian civilians should be forcibly expelled from the West Bank and Gaza Strip. This does not reflect my views. I was merely trying to convey my strong belief that Israel should yield no further territory until its security is assured and that the individuals who support terrorist acts may properly be exiled from the area.'' Nonetheless, his remarks sparked fury. ``It is beyond belief that Representative Armey would openly call for the ethnic cleansing of the entire Muslim and Christian Palestinian population, something that violates every norm of international law and human rights,'' said Jason Erb of the Council on American-Islamic Relations. ``Even the most extreme Israelis are reluctant to publicly advocate such an insane policy.'' Supporters of a peace process say such high emotions are a product of anti-Palestinian rhetoric that was a predictable byproduct of the congressional resolutions, and run contrary to the message Bush has been trying to craft. On Thursday, Bush restated his support for a Palestinian state, although he said it must be democratic and not based on a foundation of terror. And he reiterated that Israel's hold on the West Bank is an ``occupation'' that must yield to Palestinian statehood. Bush did not directly address the congressional actions, choosing instead to speak through his spokesman Ari Fleischer. ``The president understands Congress will speak its mind in a nonbinding fashion, and the president will respect that,'' Fleischer said a news conference. Rep. Nick Rahall, D-W.Va., who voted against the resolution, said even though he supports Israel he couldn't vote for a measure that accepted the ``brutal'' and ``humiliating'' actions taken by Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon against unarmed Palestinians. Several lawmakers added that election-year politics, and attempts by both parties to win crucial support from the Jewish community, should not be allowed to weaken the United States' role in negotiating peace in the Middle East. And Sen. Ernest Hollings, D-S.C., who was one of two senators to vote against the milder pro-Israel resolution in the Senate, called congressional action on the matter ``one-sided'' and ``simplistic.'' Some academics agreed. ``In order to be successful, the United States has to be viewed as something of an honest peace broker,'' said Ric Stoll, a professor of political science and Middle East expert at Rice University. ``Calling Arafat a terrorist doesn't help at all. And even though it's Congress saying it, most people outside the United States don't make the distinction between the president and Congress. It gets blurred to outsiders.'' XXX END OF STORY 
