America Online said Wednesday that it had chosen Google to provide Web search results and the advertisements that appear next to them. The decision will increase Google's already healthy share of the search market and give its relatively new advertising program a stronger foothold. Google is replacing two incumbents, the search engine Inktomi and the ad provider Overture Services, which will continue to place ads on AOL services in Europe. News of the deal sent Overture's stock plunging 36 percent, to $21.99, while Inktomi's shares dropped 24 percent to $1.76. Overture and Google, which is privately held, have been squaring off recently in the increasingly lucrative market for ads tied to search results, an area that Overture has dominated. Last week, Overture announced a three-year deal to provide ads to Yahoo, and it has sued Google for infringing its patents, an accusation Google denies. Executives at the companies said AOL's decision had less to do with advertising revenue than with the complete package Google offered, including its search results, widely regarded as the best on the Web. ``Google is the reigning champ of online search,'' said Robert W. Pittman, the incoming chief operating officer at AOL Time Warner, the parent of America Online. Eric E. Schmidt, chairman and chief executive of Google, said in an interview that he had been ``frankly surprised'' that the deal with AOL had not been more focused on the bottom line. He said Pittman ``understands that the way you grow is by customer satisfaction,'' which leads to subscriber growth for AOL's Internet services. Schmidt said Google and AOL would be sharing revenue from the deal, ``and there is plenty of revenue to go around.'' The companies declined to provide further specifics. Google's advertising clients pay it each time a user clicks on an ad, and the increased distribution provided by AOL will allow it to charge more for ads. The agreement calls for Google to start providing search results this summer on the AOL and CompuServe subscription services and the AOL and Netscape Web sites. Google's ads have already started appearing on the AOL service and site, and will be introduced on CompuServe and the Netscape site in several weeks. Overture said it would continue to provide its ads to AOL Europe through an existing multiyear deal. To offset the bad news, the company said it was raising its profit forecast in light of its strong first quarter and its Yahoo deal. It expects to report a profit of $60 million to $65 million for the full year. Ted Meisel, Overture's president and chief executive, said in a conference call with analysts that the loss of the AOL business was a disappointment but that AOL ``was far from our largest partner,'' and that the company's ads would continue to reach about 85 percent of the Web audience without it. Even so, Merrill Lynch downgraded the stock of Overture on Wednesday to buy from strong buy, citing competition from Google. The AOL deal gives Google control of a larger share of the searches performed by Web surfers. In April, 22 percent of Web users used AOL's search function, making it the fourth-most-popular search destination after Microsoft's MSN, Google's own site and Yahoo, which includes Google search results on its site, according to figures from Jupiter Media Metrix. In online discussions on Wednesday, Web site owners expressed some concern about Google's increasing dominance. It is already the largest source of referrals for many sites, and the AOL deal means that high rankings in Google's search results will be even more important. But Danny Sullivan, editor of the Search Engine Watch site, said there was little reason to fear a Google monopoly on search. ``I think Google is very strong, but so far they have made the whole industry stronger rather than weaker by making other people improve their results.'' 
