and JOHN GRIFFIN c.2002 San Antonio Express-News SAN ANTONIO _ The Wine Club, a congenial, long-established group, recently devoted its monthly get-together to Texas wines. Jerrie Jackson, who put on the event with her husband, Tom, was not certain what the response would be. ``I was afraid we might not have much of a turnout,'' she said. But 25 to 30 people showed up with Texas wines in hand, and the evening was a success. ``At one point during the tasting I said to someone, `I think this is the first time in the club's history that Texas wine was the theme,''' said Jackson, an education professor at Our Lady of the Lake University in San Antonio. ``That person replied, `Up until two years ago, that wouldn't have been a good theme.''' There are those in the wine business who would argue that Texas wines still aren't up to snuff. What is not open to argument is the phenomenal growth of viticulture in Texas. While cabernet and Camembert may never push aside beer and barbecue, Texans have at least made some room on the table. ``It's pretty incredible growth,'' said Allen Spelce, the Texas Department of Agriculture's assistant commissioner for communications. ``We're getting our marketing, science and techniques down better, and we've just got great climate and conditions in Texas for growing wine. California better watch out.'' Texas is the fifth largest wine-producing state in the United States, with six federally recognized viticultural areas. The Hill Country in south-central Texas is the largest appellation in the country, covering 15,000 square miles in 22 counties. Since 1980, Texas has gone from producing 17,000 gallons of wine at five wineries to producing 1.2 million gallons at 45 wineries. The attraction to growers is good return on their per-acre investment. According to Spelce, the per-acre yield for grapes is 3.2 tons and the average value per ton is around $900. Compare that to other crops, such as cotton, returning around $260-$300 per acre, and it all adds up to incentive. ``We don't want to mislead anyone that it's an easy business, though,'' said Judy Evans, director for wine marketing with the state Department of Agriculture. ``It's a rough business.'' Farmers putting in new vines are going to wait three years until their first crop, she said. Add to that the $10,000-$35,000 required to develop a vineyard acre from scratch. Most winemakers in the Texas Hill Country have yet to turn a profit, said Franklin D. Houser, a self-proclaimed ``recovering lawyer'' who runs Dry Comal Creek Vineyards in New Braunfels and who includes himself on that list. Money aside, there is a ``myriad of just really fine products out there,'' he said. ``I'm really proud of the Texas wine industry.'' ``We've made major progress in the last few years,'' Madeleine Manigold of Spicewood Vineyards agreed. Certainly more people than ever are talking about Texas wines. Many have taken home medals from international wine competitions. Mark Lemmon, the owner of San Saba Vineyards in Soledad, Calif., had high praise for Fall Creek Vineyards, owned by Ed and Susan Auler. ``I think that the Aulers have very good products,'' he said from his Dallas home. ``The others are advancing. I think they're all getting better.'' The Wall Street Journal has hailed the Fall Creek Chardonnay, while Wine Spectator, in a recent review of Texas offerings, found some very good wines and good bargains for the price. Hill Country vintner Richard Becker, who with his wife Bunny owns Becker Vineyards, snared an 88 for the 1998 Vintage Port, the top score among all the Texas wines rated. Other accolades were aired at the recent Texas Hill Country Wine and Food Festival in Austin. At a state Department of Agriculture-hosted tasting of all-Texas wines, moderator R.W. Apple, senior correspondent for the New York Times, called the Becker Reserve Cabernet ``stunning.'' He also quoted the wine expert Jancis Robinson as having said that Texas and its wines will ``get there.'' But some in the wine business have reservations about Texas wines. Quality is the first concern. Consistency is also a question. And some wonder if Texas wine growers are not focusing enough on varietals that grow well in warmer climates _ those from Spain, Italy and France's Rhone Valley, for instance. Bruce Auden, the chef and owner of Biga on the Banks here, was recognized at the recent Texas Hill Country Wine and Food Festival for his support of Texas wines. However, Auden has been disappointed that some good wines he used to sell are no longer available or have dropped in quality. ``I'm always out there tasting Texas wines, but they're not always as consistent as we like. Many of the California wines are more consistent. If you had a wine from one vintage, you'll probably like one from another. In Texas, with some vintages, it's hard to believe it's the same grape source or vineyard,'' he said. 
