Talks between Arthur Andersen and the creditors and shareholders of Enron broke down on Wednesday after the plaintiffs were unable to agree on how to divide up settlement money, people close to the negotiations said. The discussions between the Enron creditors and shareholders and Andersen, which audited the company's financial statements, had proceeded in fits and starts for several weeks. Last week, even as talks teetered on the brink of collapse, people close to the talks said that there was new hope for a deal. But on Wednesday, after a round of conference calls involving the lawyers for Andersen and the various plaintiffs, it became clear that no agreement could be reached, people close to the talks said. One person close to the negotiations said that Eric Green, who was asked by a federal judge in Houston to mediate the talks, was preparing to notify the court that they had failed to reach an agreement. Once the judge, Melinda Harmon, receives such notification, she may order the parties to try again or may allow the lawsuits against Andersen to go to trial. ``They'll go back to litigation, but in all likelihood at some point in the future there'll be a settlement,'' said Stephen P. Younger, a partner at Patterson, Belknap, Webb &AMP; Tyler in New York, who is not involved in the negotiations. That trial might not be scheduled to begin for many months, he said, adding, ``These cases, the vast majority of them, settle.'' Lawyers for the plaintiffs have now made a risky gamble, because if Andersen loses at its criminal trial, which begins on Monday, there may not be much left of the firm to pay off the civil plaintiffs. Andersen proposed settling these lawsuits for $750 million several months ago, but the most recent settlement proposal was just $350 million, the result of the defection of clients. The shrinking _ and possibly now vanishing _ settlement will likely lead to lawsuits against other companies that could be liable for Enron's collapse, like banks and law firms. ``People are going to be firing at the banks to make up for what they couldn't get from Arthur Andersen,'' Younger said. 
