On the one hand, there is a poster on a boarded-up storefront in this depressed northern town, warning that a vote for the British National Party is a vote for ``fear, violence and race riots.'' On the other hand, there is Sharon Kenyon, 36, a community care worker and mother of three, with clothes tumbling dry in her kitchen, a tricycle languishing outside and a pro-BNP sticker affixed to an upstairs window. ``You're told that the National Party is a far-right, racist party, but it's not,'' said Kenyon, whose husband, Andrew, is running for a seat on the local council in local elections on Thursday on a platform that would, among other things, forbid the building of new mosques and stop new members of ethnic minorities from moving to Burnley. ``Do I look like that kind of person?'' Kenyon asked. ``I'm a normal, everyday person who goes to work, pays my taxes and fetches my kids from school. And I'm getting fed up. We've been let down in a big way.'' With right-wing politicians like Jean-Marie Le Pen gaining support in countries across Europe, attention in Britain's local elections _ at which 6,000 council seats are in contention _ has focused on the British National Party. Its anti-immigrant, pro-nationalist message has struck a deep nerve among some fed-up whites in the industrial north. With its roots in the unashamedly fascist, often violent and now mostly defunct National Front here, the party has become the more acceptable face of a growing nationalist movement that shuns multiculturalism, favors an end to the immigration of ethnic minorities, and believes that England's heritage is in danger of being squeezed to death by the heavy embrace of the European Union. In a leaflet distributed in many of the white sections of Burnley, where about 7.5 percent of the 92,000 residents are nonwhite and come mostly from the Asian subcontinent, the party promises to put ``pensioners before asylum seekers.'' Directing voters to a Web site advertising ``rights for whites,'' the party also vows to invest more in the town's white neighborhoods, which it says have lost out over the years to housing projects for Asian immigrants. Burnley is an old mill town fallen on hard times, and white and Asian youths struck out at each other here in violent convulsions as a series of race riots rocked northern England last summer. Residents here have proved particularly susceptible to the right-wing party's message. In last year's general election, the British National Party won 11.3 percent of the vote in Burnley; in the three most recent by-elections, it took 20 percent. In elections for council seats in 15 wards on Thursday, the party is running 13 candidates. The prospect of the party picking up any seats has so frightened the Labor Party that it is urging voters to shun the party at all costs _ even if that means voting Conservative. ``I would urge them to vote for any of the mainstream political parties to keep the BNP out,'' Prime Minister Tony Blair told The Burnley Express this week. ``The BNP peddles solutions that are not true solutions to issues. They drive communities apart, give people false hope and only deliver hatred and division.'' The party is mostly a local phenomenon, fielding just 68 candidates across the country in the local elections. But its underlying message is proving seductive to people from all parties worried about the problem of immigrants and asylum seekers, particularly in the suspicious days since Sept. 11. Home Secretary David Blunkett recently appeared to be paying heed to such concerns when he warned, bluntly, that non-English-speaking asylum seekers were ``swamping'' schools and doctor's offices. Critics said he had played into the hands of groups like the National Party. ``The problem for David Blunkett is that in trying to deal with one alienation, he creates another alienation; in trying to deal with the culture of fear, he reinforces it,'' Lord Ouseley, a black member of the House of Lords and the chairman of an inquiry into last summer's riots in Bradford, said last week. ``He doesn't understand race.'' In Burnley, Colin Green, who lives across the street from the Kenyons and is also a supporter of the party, said that one of Burnley's failings is that it tries to force its residents to understand other races, but does not try to make immigrants understand Burnley. He was shocked, he said, when he found out that one of his three children was learning about Islam in school, when the same child ``couldn't identify more than one English king and had never heard of St. George,'' England's patron saint. When he complained, the teacher said that the curriculum was imposed from above. ``There needs to be a lot more understanding and a lot less worrying about upsetting anyone,'' said Green, 36, who is looking for work, having just received an engineering degree. ``No one dares say anything against the Asian population for fear of being branded a racist.'' Across town, Zahid Nadeem, who moved to Burnley from Islamabad, Pakistan, 11 years ago and who owns the Spicy Fried Chicken take-out restaurant in a particularly ravaged section of town, said he was afraid of what might happen if the BNP won any seats on Thursday. Since the riots last summer, when a group of whites rampaged through his shop, he has been increasingly concerned about a Burnley that seems ever more hostile toward people like him. Business is way down, especially since Sept. 11, he said, and sometimes whites spit on his window when they pass by. ``That's their view,'' he said of the National Party's supporters. ``They forget that we are all human beings, first of all.'' 
