The National Magazine Awards, held Wednesday at the Waldorf-Astoria hotel, have become the one day a year when the traditional measures of publishing success _ size and profitability - defer to editorial excellence. Which is why The Atlantic and The New Yorker, two magazines that require millions of dollars from their owners to stay alive, end up as the belles of the ball. The Atlantic, which editor Michael Kelly took over a little more than two years ago, was nominated for five awards and took home three. The New Yorker's success ratio was lower _ it was nominated for nine awards and won three _ but still substantial. Editors of hugely popular magazines like People and Cosmopolitan were left to poke at their salmon lunches and be spectators as Kelly and David Remnick made short, tasteful victory speeches. They say you cannot eat prestige, but Kelly looked pretty well satiated after the awards. ``I think it is a sign of momentum,'' said Kelly, adding that David Bradley, the owner of The Atlantic, ``has put millions of dollars, personal energy and enormous resources into funding great work at this magazine. Newsstand sales are up, renewal rates are up and now this makes us feel like we are on the right track.'' Nonetheless, ad pages do not flow to award winners the way that an Oscar gooses a movie's box office take. The triumph of two magazines built on narrative was not a shock, but the day had its moments. Michael Wolff, who has found much joy and attention in skewering the publishing industry in his ``This Media Life'' column for New York magazine _ Tina Brown, the creator of the now-defunct Talk, has been a perennial target _ won an award for Columns and Commentary. ``Awards mean nothing until you are the winner,'' Wolff said. ``Then they become richly deserved and full of meaning.'' The meaning plays out over a limited demographic. After a few hours at the awards, the New Hampshire primary comes to mind: The stakes are high, but only for the people involved in the contest, and the winners and losers madly spin with the best of them. The fact that the award can put a career on steroids adds significant crackle to the proceedings. Nonetheless, decorum ruled. There were no Halle Berry meltdowns, no James Cameron self-crownings, but behind all the polite applause, there was a palpable lust to get one's mitts on an Ellie, the Alexander Calder elephant stabile that looks more like a Space Age weapon. They may look impressive, but they do not have the value in the advertising marketplace that winners would like to think. ``I think of it as more an insider event,'' said George Fertitta, president of the Margeotes/Fertitta &AMP; Partners ad agency. ``I think in order for it to have relevance and meaning beyond the people in that industry, it has to be actively promoted.'' Now that he is out of the hunt and busy writing a book, Daniel Okrent, a former senior editorial executive at Time Inc., is willing to voice an unpopular opinion . ``As a two-time winner, I can tell you that they mean nothing,'' Okrent said. ``Maybe the individual story awards matter, but the General Excellence categories are absolutely arbitrary. You have magazines that win one year and the next year they are not even nominated, even though it is the exact same magazine put out by the same staff and the same editors. It's kind of silly.'' By its very nature, the contest for General Excellence _ the Best Picture Oscar of the event _ puts apples and oranges in the same basket because the determining factor is circulation size. That means that Vibe, an urban music magazine, and The New Yorker, two magazines that probably do not have a lot of cross-readership, both competed in the General Excellence category for magazines with circulation between 500,000 and 1 million. Vibe won. (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.) And Vibe's victory was not the only splash of color in a very white professional milieu. Susan Taylor, editorial director of Essence, received a Hall of Fame Award for her years at Essence, a magazine whose brand of empowerment has found a large audience among black women. Some tweaks have occurred this year, including the addition of another General Excellence category. But no amount of re-jiggering will change the embedded bias of the screeners, who generally consign women's titles to the less prestigious margins of the competition. Narrative is king, and a magazine is generally out of luck if they do not go long and glorious. Stephen Colvin, president of Dennis Publishing USA, was not at the Waldorf. Although the company's magazines _ Maxim, Stuff, and Blender _ are successes in a very tough market, none was nominated. ``The key barometers of magazine success are circulation, advertising and profitability,'' said Colvin. ``The Rolling Stones have never won a Grammy, but the likes of Christopher Cross and Celine Dion have. We'd much prefer to be the Rolling Stones.'' Other magazine officials, especially those who head titles struggling for visibility in competitive categories, say an award can be a tipping point. ``Every magazine in the world is out there telling advertisers how great they are, but this makes it official. It's not your word against everyone else's,'' said John Rasmus, editor of National Geographic Adventure. The three-year-old magazine won awards for Personal Service and General Excellence (in the 200,000 to 500,000-circulation category). Michael R. Levy, publisher of Texas Monthly, concedes the awards can be subjective. ``But even given that, you never walk away and say, `Why in the hell did they win?' The judging may be subjective, but this is not figure skating.'' The awards are not nearly as exciting, for one thing, although the folks from Vibe made a tall and mighty noise when the magazine won its General Excellence award. ``As a species, we are just not that demonstrative,'' said David Granger, editor in chief of Esquire. ``We are editors, what do you want? We're boring.'' THE WINNERS OF THE 2002 NATIONAL MAGAZINE AWARDS General Excellence (Over 2,000,000 Circulation) _ Newsweek General Excellence (1,000,000 to 2,000,000 Circulation) _ Entertainment Weekly General Excellence (500,000 to 1,000,000 Circulation) _ Vibe General Excellence (200,000 to 500,000 Circulation) _ National Geographic Adventure General Excellence (Under 200,000 Circulation) _ Print Personal Service _ National Geographic Adventure Leisure Interests _ Vogue Reporting _ The Atlantic Monthly Public Interest _ The Atlantic Monthly Feature Writing _ The Atlantic Monthly Columns and Commentary _ New York Essays _ The New Yorker Reviews and Criticism _ Harper's Magazine Profile Writing _ The New Yorker Single-Topic Issue _ Time Design _ Details Photography _ Vanity Fair Fiction _ The New Yorker General Excellence Online _ National Geographic Magazine Online 
