When the authorities charged the director of an Islamic charity with perjury this week, they buttressed their complaint with evidence gathered with the approval of a special anti-terrorism court that law enforcement officials say has taken on a greater role since the Sept. 11 attacks. The information used to support the arrest of the charity director, Enaam M. Arnaout, on charges of lying when he said under oath that he and his organization were not involved in terrorism was gathered using a wide array of law enforcement techniques, according to a government affidavit. The information came from confidential informers, surreptitious examination of trash from the charity and a raid on the Bosnia office of the charity, the Benevolence International Foundation. But the authorities also disclosed that they had gathered information at the charity's Chicago headquarters in a raid last month approved by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court. The special court, which operates in secret, evaluates requests to spy on people in the United States believed to be operating on behalf of a foreign power. After Sept. 11, Congress enacted an anti-terrorism law, the U.S.A. Patriot Act, that made it easier for prosecutors to use information gathered from the intelligence wiretaps and bugs authorized under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. ``This is the kind of thing that shows how the U.S.A. Patriot Act made it easier'' to make use of the special intelligence court, a senior Justice Department official said. Although the work of the court is highly secretive, the authorities disclosed its use in two recent arrests. In addition to the arrest of Arnaout, the information gathered in eavesdropping authorized by the court was used to indict Lynne F. Stewart, the New York defense lawyer charged with providing material aid to terrorists. Stewart represented Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman, who was convicted in 1995 in a terrorist plot to blow up New York landmarks. She was one of four people charged in a plot to help the sheik pass messages from prison to members of the Egyptian terrorist group he once led. The government said much of its evidence came from eavesdropping in Abdel Rahman's cell. Judge Royce C. Lamberth, the federal trial judge in Washington who is nearing the end of his term as presiding judge of the special court, gave a recent speech in which he provided a rare view of some of the procedures of the court. Lamberth described it as ``one of the least known courts but increasingly one of the most important as we combat our hidden enemies.'' In his April 13 remarks to the University of Texas Law School, Judge Lamberth said the court provides ``a measure of protection that heretofore did not exist to assure that national security surveillances are conducted for valid reasons in the best interest of our nation and not for some political reasons.'' He said that after the bombings of United States embassies in Africa in 1998, he held his first emergency sessions in his living room at 3 a.m. to review applications. He recounted that while he was mowing his lawn the first weekend in April, ``I had to stop and do seven emergency hearings with four carloads of agents in the driveway.'' Judge Lamberth said his wife is obliged to go upstairs when he considers emergency applications because she lacks the necessary security clearance, but his cocker spaniel can stay by his side. The court began operating in 1979 and recent changes in the law will increase its size to 11 federal judges appointed by the chief justice, from 7 judges. Three of the judges must live near Washington to expedite emergency applications. Lamberth said that the court does not simply rubber-stamp requests, although in its last report to Congress it said it had approved all 934 formal applications. While there have been no formal rejections, he said, ``Some have been revised and some have been withdrawn.'' He said that when the FBI, CIA or someone from the Justice Department makes an application, the agent making the request is put under oath, and ``I ask questions and get into the nitty-gritty.'' The recent changes also allowed information gathered from intelligence wiretaps to be more easily used by criminal prosecutors, as it was in both the Arnaout and Stewart cases. Before the enactment of the new anti-terrorism law, it was more difficult to use information gathered from a source authorized by the special court because the standard was much lower than that required for a surveillance for a criminal investigation. To get authorization for intelligence surveillance, the authorities had to show only that they believed a foreign government was involved. Judges may grant applications for surveillance in criminal cases only when there is a showing of probable cause that a crime has been committed, a more rigorous standard. 
