Britons are working longer hours than they did a decade ago, but are less productive than their counterparts in the United States and Continental Europe, according to a survey released Wednesday. The research, conducted by the Economic and Social Research Council, a government-funded agency, debunks several work force myths, including the notion that gold-watch employees who spend their entire careers with one company are a dying breed, and that the new economy has created a transient work force made up of professional freelancers who jump from job to job. Policy-makers in Britain have promoted the idea of a more flexible work force _ in which people held more part-time or temporary jobs and often worked from home _ as one perk of the new economy. The new type of employee even got a new name _ the portfolio worker _ and was supposed to benefit from a more flexible schedule and shorter hours. But like so much of the new economy, that scenario appears to be more wishful thinking than fact. The vast majority of the 2,500 people surveyed, 92 percent, held permanent jobs in 2000, up from 88 percent in 1992, the last time comparable research was conducted. And people are staying in their jobs longer and working more hours than they did a decade ago, the survey found. The all-work, all-the-time culture that appears to be taking hold sounded familiar to Simon Rostron, a partner in a public relations firm whose clients include some of London's large financial institutions. He said he longs for the days when a three-hour lunch over multiple bottles of claret was still the norm. ``Today, people are actually arranging meetings at 2 p.m.,'' Rostron said. ``That is a cause for indigestion.'' One out of three British men, and 1 in 10 women work more than 50 hours a week, said Professor Peter Nolan, director of the Future of Work program at the Economic and Social Research Council. On average that is roughly 10 hours more a week than people work in most other European countries; Americans still work longer hours. Yet Britain is two-thirds less productive than the United States and one-third less productive than Europe when it comes to manufacturing output, Nolan continued. The long hours are beginning to take a toll, it seems. Only 16 percent of those questioned said they would work longer hours than they do to help their organization, compared with 21 percent who said they would in 1992. The findings have re-ignited a debate between business and labor groups. The Trades Union Congress, representing about 6.7 million workers, wants Britain to adhere to a European Union directive that limits people to a 48-hour work week. The Confederation of British Industry is opposed to any limit. ``There is no need for a nanny state,'' Richard Dodd, a spokesman for the confederation said Wednesday. John Monks, the general-secretary of the Trades Union Congress, countered by saying, ``People do not work long hours out of choice, but because of the pressures of the job.'' Despite the British government's effort to encourage investments in new technologies and breathe life into the digital economy, the fastest growing jobs over the past decade were often menial, low-wage positions. The number of hairdressers grew the fastest, up 302 percent since 1992, Nolan said. Shelf-stockers ranked No. 7, behind nurses, housekeepers, call center operators, welfare workers, education assistants and software engineers. 
