When I hear people dismiss extracurricular activities as frills and waste, I think of the worst academic advice I ever got. Ironically, it came from my college adviser. ``Don't spend too much time at the college paper,'' he told me. ``Don't let your grades suffer.'' Fortunately, I did just what he advised against. I virtually lived at the college newspaper office immersed in the craft, learning things you can't teach in a classroom. My grades did suffer, but not my education. Aside from the craft, student publications provide something invaluable: an audience. Nothing brings out a person's best like an audience. An audience of one, a teacher, inspires only so much. Expanding that audience is what a lot of school activities are all about. Far from frills, school activities are fundamentally enriching. They are where poise, assertiveness, collaboration and the seeds of civic involvement get planted. Looking back, a lot of it will appear to have been trivial play-acting. What does student government accomplish? Sometimes it does a lot, sometimes not. Regardless, it gets minds thinking that empowerment is a matter of one's own initiative. That's not trivial. That's the essence of the American experience. Organized sports? Yes, they can be overemphasized, sometimes to education's detriment. But sports also are a way to keep some students focused. Whatever the ``hook,'' in the words of Waco High Principal Molly Maloy, it matters. ``The more kids (are) involved, the more likelihood that we are going to keep them on track,'' said Maloy. Waco voters made an important statement four years ago approving a new performing arts center at Waco High. Whether coincidence or not, participation and achievement have been up. Florence Scattergood's choir program has six choirs and 175 students, 35 more than last year. Recently the mixed choir won the sweepstakes award at the University Interscholastic League regional sight-reading contest. The Waco High Symphonic Band, which did not even enter the UIL regional sight-reading contest four years ago, earned a superior rating this time. That's the highest mark in 14 years, said band director Charles Sander. In drama, with a gripping performance of ``I Never Saw Another Butterfly,'' about the Polish ghetto during the Holocaust, Waco High cracked through a long-standing creative barrier when it advanced out of district and to the one-act play regional contest. The difference? Maybe stage presence. ``If you build it, we can compete,'' is what fine arts coordinator and drama teacher Rick Lowe was saying during the campaign for the performing arts venue. Previously his thespians were nomads in search of a stage. Now their desert wandering is over. Meanwhile on a smaller stage Saturday, some Waco citizens were testing their thoughts and words in a time-honored way. Debate teams from G.W. Carver Academy, G.L. Wiley and Lake Air middle schools participated in the Lorene Trussell Debate Forum at Carver. They debated such subjects as a nuclear test ban, school uniforms and voting rights. For the Carver debate team sponsored by Mary Duty, more is to come. They are planning a trip to Washington in July to participate in the GEAR UP conference sponsored by the U. S. Department of Education and the National Center for Community and Education. ``Debate training produces the kind of people Thomas Jefferson was convinced we needed for our society to grow and to thrive,'' said Duty, a history teacher. Having been invited, the team's next task is to afford it. It is $1,500 short of taking six debaters to Washington. The debaters will be having weekly car washes and will host local attorneys in a reception. Sure, classroom performance is essential. I dare say, however, that without experiences like these outside the classroom, much of what's taught would fall from students' hands like chalk dust. John Young is opinion page editor of the Waco Tribune-Herald. Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
