The New York Times said in an editorial for Thursday, May 2: The farm bill agreed to by a House-Senate conference committee last week is a regrettable reversion to some of the worst policies of the past. Its salient feature is a $50 billion increase in subsidies to big producers of row crops like corn and wheat over the next 10 years. That represents a 50 percent jump over present levels and a complete reversal of Congress' promising attempts six years ago to wean farmers of all subsidies. Meanwhile, as is usually the case, small farmers and the environment get shortchanged. A group of House rebels led by Rep. Ron Kind, D-Wis., is expected to offer a motion on Thursday morning on the House floor to send the whole sorry mess back to the conference committee for fixing. They deserve support. The main architects of the bill, Larry Combest in the House and Tom Harkin in the Senate, insist that the criticism is unfair. They also note that the bill significantly enlarges spending for programs to improve water quality, preserve open space and protect wetlands. And so it does, though several caveats are in order. Any bill that encourages overproduction, as this one does, cannot be an unqualified gain for the environment. Moreover, some of the money for environmental purposes is backloaded until later years and is more of a promise than a commitment. Finally, the conservation money in the compromise bill is much less than the money in the original Senate bill, a more balanced measure undermined when the Senate's own negotiators capitulated on key points. One positive feature is that the bill provides $600 million annually in new nutrition programs, including the restoration of food stamps to many legal immigrants. President Bush lobbied hard for this provision. Regrettably, however, Bush abandoned his earlier enthusiasm for reform of a system that has been around since the New Deal and, in its present incarnation, funnels two-thirds of the subsidies to only 3 percent of the farmers. Politics was one big reason for Bush's switch, just as it was for the Senate negotiators. There are several Senate seats up for grabs in the farm states this fall. The net result is an expensive bill that perpetuates the old inequities. 
