Democratic lawmakers, led by House Democratic Whip Nancy Pelosi of California, on Thursday urged the House to pass a bill by Rep. Gene Green, D-Texas, that would force employers to notify workers when they take out policies on their lives. Calling the practice outrageous and simply wrong, Pelosi joined Democrats and union representatives in rallying support for the bill. ``A company's job is to generate goods, services, jobs and income,'' Pelosi said. ``It is not their job to make millions of dollars in life insurance off the deaths of American workers.'' The insurance, also known as ``dead peasant'' or ``dead janitor'' insurance, is commonly purchased by companies that receive the death benefits when rank and file employees die. Employers often use the tax-free death benefits to fund executive compensation plans, while the families of the deceased see none of the proceeds. Under Texas law, only relatives, creditors and those with a reasonable expectation of a financial benefit from the continued life of another can take out policies. The courts have ruled employers don't have that same financial interest in a low-level employee in Texas, however they do for key executives. Currently only five states have laws that require employee consent: California, Ohio, Illinois, Minnesota and Michigan. Green said it's up to individual states and not the federal government to decide whether to outlaw the practice, although he hopes his bill discourages employers from buying such policies. ``This is a first step,'' Green said. ``I really think disclosure will dissuade them from doing it.'' Companies typically buy the insurance policies in secret, and employees have no way of knowing that their lives are insured to benefit their employer. Employers buy the policies to receive tax advantages, including tax-free death benefits and tax-free investment accumulation. The issue has come under greater scrutiny since the Houston Chronicle revealed Enron-owned Portland General Electric's purchase of COLIs, or corporate-owned life insurance policies, on lives of its employees. The insurance, which Portland General purchased during the mid-1980s, has generated nearly $80 million in a special trust fund that the company uses to fund special retirement and other benefits for the utility's managers, directors and executives. XXX END OF STORY 
