In the end, the scuttling of talks aimed at settling securities lawsuits against Arthur Andersen by Enron stakeholders came down to a decision by Wall Street to try to limit its own liability for Enron's collapse. Several big banks are in the curious position of being both defendants and potential plaintiffs in the Andersen litigation, which is seeking billions of dollars for the losses of Enron investors, lenders and retirees. The banks, including J.P. Morgan Chase and Citigroup, are defendants because shareholders' lawyers say they contributed to Enron's downfall. And they are potential plaintiffs because they lent money to the company. In the settlement talks that fell apart on Wednesday, according to participants, plaintiffs' lawyers forced the banks to choose either to waive the right to limit their exposure to Enron-related claims or accept a meager share of Andersen's $300 million settlement offer. Put that way, it is no wonder that the negotiations failed. The banks balked at signing waivers that would have weakened their right to limit their liability for Enron's implosion to reflect Andersen's partial responsibility, said people close to the talks. On the other side, lawyers for the Enron shareholders were unwilling to let the banks off the hook, because their pockets increasingly appear to be the deepest of anyone tied to Enron's collapse. ``Why do the banks get to derail all this? Because the banks have a right under federal law,'' and they were not offered enough in exchange for giving up that right, said Michael R. Young, a lawyer at Willkie Farr &AMP; Gallagher in New York. ``The risk-reward calculus is all out of proportion.'' The importance of the commercial and investment banks in settlement talks _ plaintiffs have named J.P. Morgan Chase, Citibank, Credit Suisse First Boston, Merrill Lynch and Bank of America, among others, as defendants _ highlights the central role that Wall Street continues to play in the Enron saga. ``Andersen is a limited and wasting asset,'' said one lawyer who did not wish to be identified because his law firm represents companies involved in the Enron bankruptcy. But for the big banks that are named as defendants in the lawsuit alongside Andersen, he continued, it is better to keep shareholders from getting anything from Andersen than to increase their potential vulnerability to the same claims. The Andersen talks failed for two reasons, lawyers close to the negotiations said. First, the various parties that would have to split any money that Andersen paid could not agree on who should receive how much. The securities class action plaintiffs, led by the Regents of the University of California and represented by William S. Lerach of the law firm Milberg Weiss Bershad Hynes &AMP; Lerach, did not want to give up much money to Enron's creditors, and vice versa. The situation was not helped by the fact that the settlement would have consisted of a cash component and then a portion to be funded out of Andersen's continuing earnings. ``Each side wanted hard cash,'' one person close to the talks said, because everyone was uncertain whether Andersen would survive its upcoming criminal trial. That case, in which prosecutors have charged the firm with obstruction of justice for shredding documents related to its audits of Enron, is scheduled to begin Monday in Houston before Judge Melinda Harmon of the United States District Court, who also is presiding in the shareholders' civil case. The other obstacle to the talks was more complicated _ and the result of a perverse effect of a change in securities law that was long sought by the accounting industry in the mid-1990's. That law, the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act, gave law firms, accounting firms and investment banks more protection from shareholder lawsuits by limiting the amount they could be compelled to pay, under most circumstances, to their share of blame, said Michael A. Perino, a professor at St. John's University School of Law in New York. ``If you're only 10 percent liable, you would only pay 10 percent of the damages in the case,'' unless the firm committed fraud intentionally _ and that is much harder to prove, he said. In Andersen's case, that would mean that if a court eventually determined that the accounting firm was 50 percent liable for Enron shareholders' losses, then the other defendants would not have to pay more than 50 percent of damages. Because the amount that Andersen may pay to settle the lawsuits may well be less than its share of liability, the Enron shareholders wanted to be able to go after the banks for the difference, lawyers close to the talks said. That was the sticking point for the banks that, as Enron creditors, are potential plaintiffs in the litigation. To get a share of Andersen's settlement, they would have to open themselves to paying more later to other plaintiffs. The banks were unprepared to waive their rights under the law. ``The waivers became the issue,'' said one person close to the committee representing Enron creditors in Bankruptcy Court. J.P. Morgan Chase and Citigroup sit on the committee, but under its bylaws did not participate in discussions of the creditors' negotiating stance. That meant that while Andersen was a party to the negotiations, along with retirees and Enron itself, the critical talks involved the banks and Enron shareholders. The person close to the creditors' committee said that while the panel wanted to settle the case against Andersen, it had ``no control over the waivers.'' Until this week, this person said, Lerach never indicated that a failure to obtain the waivers from the banks would sink a settlement. Now that the talks have failed, Lerach may be betting that he can recover more money from Andersen's co-defendants alone than he could by combining Andersen's $300 million with a correspondingly smaller recovery from the banks. But lawyers said that it would be difficult to sue the banks successfully because the law requires that plaintiffs show intentional wrongdoing. Meanwhile, the result of the banks' moves may be that other parties recover very little from Andersen. Lerach did not return a phone call seeking comment. Now the lawsuit will continue toward trial, unless Judge Harmon orders the parties to try again. Lawyers observing the case said that there may not be any reason to try restarting the talks before the conclusion of Andersen's criminal trial _ and depending on the jury's verdict, there may not be much reason afterward, either. 
