On a day of more fatal gunfire, and a scramble by foreign peace activists carrying food into the Church of the Nativity, Palestinian negotiators offered a compromise to end the monthlong standoff between Israeli soldiers and Palestinian gunmen inside. The proposal by the Palestinians, modeled after an American-brokered agreement that freed Yasser Arafat, the Palestinian leader, from house arrest in Ramallah, would end the siege here by transferring men wanted by Israel as terrorists from inside the church to a Palestinian jail guarded by foreign wardens. ``In principle, this is something we could accept here at the church,'' said Hanna Nasser, the mayor of Bethlehem and a member of the Palestinian negotiating team. ``We say that a third party should step in now and handle this situation.'' Although six accused of terrorism were transferred from Arafat's compound on Wednesday in a similar arrangement, ending the siege there, no formal negotiations were held between the two sides Thursday on the impasse in Bethlehem, and Israel sent mixed signals through the news media on the Palestinian suggestion. One military official, who is working closely with Israel's negotiating team, said the proposal probably offered a way toward an eventual solution. ``We cannot ignore what happened in Ramallah, and this option is now in discussion,'' he said. But a high-ranking defense official said it was unlikely the proposal would be accepted because Israel classifies about 25 men inside the church as the most dangerous of terrorists _ who must be either tried in Israel or exiled upon their exit. ``Why should we compromise on an issue where we are really 100 percent correct?'' the official said. ``These are really murderers.'' There was no public sign of active U.S. diplomacy on the Bethlehem siege, and Western and Israeli officials in Jerusalem said the Ramallah siege had been a higher priority for Washington because it involved Arafat. The Palestinian proposal came as Israel faced the added complication of having 11 foreigners _ 10 activists and a photographer _ inside the compound. A group of 23 activists appeared in Bethlehem's narrow stone alleys about 5:50 p.m. Thursday, then picked their way through the barbed wire barricade about 200 yards from the church and walked quickly across Manger Square. Several had food in their backpacks: rice, flour, lentils, canned goods, salt, cigarettes and sugar. The Palestinians inside say they have been living on boiled grass for two weeks. The group seemed to catch the Israeli soldiers off balance, and quickly made it across the square, under the gaze of snipers and paratroopers behind sandbags, to the basilica's tiny entrance, where the door swung open to admit them. Ten activists ducked inside; 13 others were detained by Israeli soldiers. A Los Angeles Times photographer, Carolyn Cole, slipped inside, too. The activists are members of the International Solidarity Movement, a loose coalition of people who oppose Israeli occupation of the West Bank and Gaza Strip, and support Palestinian causes. Cole told her colleagues outside the church that she felt safe. Lt. Col. Olivier Rafowicz, an Israeli military spokesman, said negotiators hoped to get the activists and Cole out of the church as soon as possible. He also questioned their commitment to peace. ``By joining the terrorists, they are actually giving them the ability to be there for more time, in this holy place, this place of prayer, with their guns and booby traps,'' he said. ``I do not understand, because if peace means being inside a church with a Kalashnikov, I think they need to review their meaning of peace.'' Assessing the fire damage, the Rev. Artemio Vitores, a Franciscan spokesman, said the Greek Orthodox convent had been seriously affected, and that destruction had also occurred on the fourth and fifth floors of Casa Nova Franciscan pilgrim house and in the parish priest's office. The oldest and most religiously significant structures, including the basilica built on the ground where Christians believe Jesus was born, escaped harm, he said. (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.) The cause of the fires remained uncertain. While some Israeli military officials said the Palestinians had set them, others said it was possible that they had been caused by Israeli gunfire or falling flares, which the Israelis said were fired to illuminate the area only after Palestinian gunmen had opened fire. There was more shooting in the square Thursday, beginning at 1:05 p.m. Israeli snipers shot three men, killing one and severely wounding the others. At least four people have been killed and nine wounded since the two sides started negotiating April 23; one Israeli soldier has also been shot. The two wounded men and the body were evacuated one by one at Israeli gunpoint around 2:45 p.m. Israel now estimates that about 150 people remain inside, 30 to 50 fewer than estimates of a few days ago. This number was roughly corroborated by the activists. One of the activists, Kristen D. Schurr, 33, of Morningside Heights in New York, said the Palestinians had greeted their arrival with exuberance. ``They cheered for us,'' Schurr said Wednesday night in an interview by cell phone from inside the church. ``They said: ``Welcome! Welcome! Thank you!''' Although the Israelis said they hoped the activists would leave quickly, that seemed unlikely. ``Our intention is to stay until the Palestinians are allowed to leave without fear of being arrested or killed,'' Schurr said. 
