Micron Technology said Thursday that it was withdrawing from talks over the future of bankrupt Hynix Semiconductor, dashing the lingering hopes of South Korean government officials that a deal could still be salvaged for Micron to acquire Hynix's memory chip business. Micron's chairman, Steven R. Appleton, made plain his anger over the Hynix board's surprise action on Tuesday, in which it rejected an agreement reached after months of negotiations among Micron, Hynix and the creditor banks that control Hynix's finances. Under that deal, Micron would have acquired Hynix's seven plants that make memory chips _ its main business _ for 108.6 million shares of Micron stock. Hynix's board said on Tuesday that the 30-percent slide in Micron's share price after the deal was negotiated had made the price _ now about $3 billion _ too low. Noting that the rejected deal had had the full backing of the South Korean government and Hynix's creditors, Appleton said that he and his aides were ``unable to discern a process that would allow the numerous parties involved to reach agreement in a timely manner'' on any new deal. In a telephone interview from Micron's headquarters in Boise, Idaho, Sean Mahoney, a spokesman for the company, said Micron agreed with the Hynix board on one major point, that there were problems with the creditors' plans for the remainder of Hynix and its $6.8 billion in outstanding debts. ``The debt restructuring plan as proposed by the creditors needed work,'' Mahoney said. But unlike the Hynix board, Mahoney said, Micron had been willing to keep working on a solution, provided that the overall deal moved ahead. Mahoney declined to discuss the specifics of the creditors' plans or what the problems were with them. Micron's announcement that it was walking away came as almost as big a shock to the finance ministry and the creditors as the Hynix board's rejection did. Several officials had been suggesting publicly that the creditor banks could salvage the Micron deal by forcing out Hynix's current directors, who have said they think Hynix can survive on its own now that chip prices are rising. Analysts expressed concern Thursday that chip prices could be driven back down again if Hynix and other manufacturers overreact by ramping up production too quickly. Even if the price strength continues, though, the government and the three main creditor banks, which are state controlled, said that it was already clear that Hynix had to find another buyer for its assets or face liquidation. Micron officials emphatically denied that the company was feigning walking away from the talks to get Hynix back to the table with a more compliant attitude. ``This is not a ploy,'' said one Micron official. Even if the whole Hynix board were replaced tomorrow, the Micron official said, the new directors would need several months to master the issues before conducting talks. 
