The House and Senate voted overwhelmingly Thursday in rapid succession to express strongly worded support for Israel in its recent military operations, largely brushing aside last-minute attempts by the Bush administration to soften language criticizing the Palestinians. The two congressional resolutions were nonbinding, but they put the legislative branch of government effectively on record as backing the military actions of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel, even as President Bush has called on Israel to end its ``occupation'' of Palestinian towns. The Senate voted 94-2 in favor of its resolution, which also calls on the Palestinian Authority to act against terrorism, as Bush has also done. The House quickly followed, voting 352-21 in support of a tougher-worded measure stating concern that the actions of Yasser Arafat, the Palestinian leader, ``are not those of a viable partner for peace.'' Twenty-nine House members voted present as a protest that the resolution was too tilted toward Israel. Even after appeals to delay such resolutions, members of Congress in both chambers and both parties rushed to assert their solidarity with Israel, which has strong support from two influential political constituencies, Jewish Democrats and Christian conservatives. Their actions served to complicate the already delicate diplomacy that Bush is trying to conduct to end the violence and restart negotiations. In emotional debate House members and Senate members, from the left and from the right, repeatedly branded Arafat a ``terrorist'' and a ``despot.'' A minority of lawmakers expressed reservations about the policies of Sharon. The Israeli prime minister arrives in Washington next week for talks with Bush. Administration officials have tried in recent weeks to urge him to withdraw his forces from the West Bank and to moderate military actions against Palestinians. The congressional votes in effect endorsed Israel's recent military campaign, aspects of which have drawn strong criticism from human rights groups, including a report Thursday that cited evidence of possible war crimes in Jenin. The resolutions may make it more difficult for Bush to counsel Sharon to exercise restraint. King Adbullah II of Jordan is also scheduled to visit Washington next week for talks with Bush and Secretary of State Colin Powell. The White House has been trying to enlist moderate Arab support for its diplomatic efforts, which include talks with Arafat. A minority of lawmakers called the measures dangerously tilted toward Israel. ``This resolution blindly supports Israel's action against the Palestinians and wholly denies the generations of suffering of the Palestinian people,'' said Rep. David E. Bonior, D-Mich., a state with a significant Arab immigrant population. Sens. Ernest F. Hollings, D-S.C., and Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., were the only senators who voted against the resolution. Hollings, in debate, suggested that many of his colleagues were after campaign contributions. But the overwhelming vote was for support of Israel. These included a number of House Republican leaders and conservatives who showed little patience for calls for a middle ground in the Middle East, pointing to growing tensions between Bush and his conservative base. On the eve of the vote, the House majority leader, Dick Armey of Texas, endorsed a position flatly at odds with the longstanding precepts of the Oslo peace effort. ``I'm content to have Israel grab the entire West Bank, he said in an appearance on ``Hardball with Chris Matthews'' on MSNBC. He added under questioning, ``I happen to believe that the Palestinians should leave.'' Democrats were equally impassioned. Sen. Joseph I. Lieberman, D-Conn., who is considered a possible challenger to Bush in 2004, read aloud Bush's own uncompromising words in the days after Sept. 11 that nations would have to choose between standing with the United States or with terrorists. ``The intention of this statement is really to embody and express those last words that I quoted from President Bush,'' said Lieberman, the sponsor of the Senate measure along with Gordon H. Smith, R-Ore. (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.) It is not unusual for Congress to express its views on foreign policy with nonbinding resolutions. Often presidents object or try to change the language. In 1999 the House marked the 10th anniversary of the Tiananmen Square massacre by adopting a nonbinding resolution condemning China for human rights violations. A year later Speaker Dennis Hastert put off consideration of a resolution that recognized the mass killing of Armenians a century ago as genocide when President Bill Clinton warned it could jeopardize efforts to improve relations between Armenia and Turkey. While the House and Senate resolutions Thursday differed in tone, both said that the United State and Israel were in a ``common struggle against terrorism'' and both expressed solidarity with Israel ``as it takes necessary steps to provide security to its people by dismantling the terrorist infrastructure in the Palestinian areas.'' The White House tried and failed, according to congressional aides, to have that clause removed. The House, in negotiations with the White House did make a few last-minute changes and added a provision that calls on the international community to ``take action to alleviate the humanitarian needs of the Palestinian people.'' 
