Los Angeles Dodgers left-hander Odalis Perez wasn't perfect, nor was he near-perfect. He was just very good. It was the bullpen that was downright dazzling, enabling the Dodgers to outlast the Cincinnati Reds on Thursday at Dodger Stadium. Dodgers relievers pitched six hitless innings and retired the last 17 batters they faced. That set up Adrian Beltre, who finally ended the struggle with a run-scoring single to right with one out in the bottom of the 14th inning to lift the Dodgers to a 3-2 victory. The win kept the Dodgers in a first-place tie with Arizona in the National League West. It also ended Cincinnati's winning streak at Chavez Ravine at seven games. ``Being here 14 innings and playing all night, you better win it,'' Beltre said. ``The bullpen did an unbelievable job.'' Shawn Green began the 14th inning with a single off Luis Pineda, who then left the game because of dizziness. Eric Karros grounded out off reliever Scott Sullivan. An intentional walk to Marquis Grissom followed before Beltre lofted a fly ball to shallow right. Reds right fielder Ruben Mateo dived for it, but it bounced past him as Green scored the winning run. Giovanni Carrara, the last of four Dodgers relievers, recorded his first victory after pitching a perfect inning. Paul Quantrill also pitched a perfect inning and Omar Daal was perfect for three innings. ``You really need to tip your hat to the bullpen,'' Dodgers manager Jim Tracy said. ``They gave us one opportunity after another to manufacture a run.'' Dodgers closer Eric Gagne, who was nearly untouchable in nine save chances, was the only reliever to allow a baserunner, and that came in an eventful ninth inning in which he walked a batter and hit one. But Gagne got Wilton Guererro to pop out to Beltre near the Dodgers' dugout with runners on the corners and one out, and Mateo grounded out to first to end the inning. Gagne entered after another strong performance from Perez, who allowed five hits and two earned runs in eight innings. He didn't walk a batter for the fourth time in six starts and struck out five. He has 30 strikeouts and three walks in 46 innings. It was the sixth time in 28 games a Dodgers starter pitched at least five innings and allowed two earned runs or less and didn't record the win. ``This pitching staff from the first guy to the 11th, is far and away one of the best in the game,'' Quantrill said. ``There's so much depth. When Omar is pitching out of the bullpen, there's got to be so much depth because of the type of pitcher his is.'' Dodgers catcher Paul Lo Duca, who has chastised himself for not hitting in the clutch enough and failing to produce at opportune times, drove in the first two Dodgers runs. After Dave Roberts led off the first inning with a single, stole second and moved to third on a groundout, Lo Duca singled through the middle of a drawn-in infield to give the Dodgers a 1-0 lead. It was their first lead of the series. Barry Larkin's sacrifice fly in the third inning tied it 1-1, but Lo Duca led off the fourth inning with his second homer of the season. Lo Duca smacked Elmer Dessens' 0-1 offering over the fence in left field. It was his first homer since April 16 and gave Perez a 2-1 lead. Normally, the two runs would be plenty for Perez, but Adam Dunn hammered an 0-1 pitch over the center-field fence to lead off the seventh inning and tie it 2-2. Three batters later, Mateo doubled, but it was the Reds' last hit of the night. ``Our bullpen was awesome,'' Lo Duca said. ``Quantrill, Gagne get through an inning and Daal throws three unbelievable innings and then (Carrara). It's a battle of the bullpens and we won.'' 
