If the polls are correct, Jean-Marie Le Pen, the far-right French presidential candidate, will be defeated today (Sunday) in a landslide of epic proportions. Pre-election surveys have predicted that Le Pen, who has been derided by mainstream European leaders as a racist, could lose to incumbent Jacques Chirac by a margin as wide as four to one. But the dimensions of that landslide will do little to obscure a significant change taking place in European politics. From France to Italy, Austria to Portugal, Norway to the Netherlands, political parties long dismissed as fascist and insignificant are gaining strength. Political analysts say the growth of Europe's hard right is rooted in the changing concerns of the continent's population. Waves of immigration, spurred by the failure of globalization to reach all parts of the globe, have prompted many Europeans to wonder what their countries will look like in the future. The advent of the single currency, the euro, for 12 European countries makes some wonder whether their countries are losing a portion of their identity and even their sovereignty. Crime has become a critical issue. So has national security _ a concern heightened by last year's terrorist attacks in the United States. These are questions the European left has not even attempted to address, says Franco Pavoncello a political scientist and dean at John Cabot University in Rome. For the most part, post-World War II Europe has been ruled by left-leaning leaders who favor social welfare, strong central governments and a steady shift to a collective economic and political system based in Brussels, the 15-member European Union. But the old models have not kept pace with new realities, political analysts say. ``We have left the politics of the 20th Century,'' Pavoncello said, a development he said the left-wing has somehow failed to notice. ``The right, however tentatively, is trying to grapple with these problems,'' Pavoncello said. ``The left would much rather deal with other issues.'' The success of the far right owes as much to the mistakes of others as it does to its own efforts, agrees Christopher Brown, a professor of international relations at the London School of Economics. In the first round of presidential voting in France two weeks ago, Le Pen, 73, won a shocking second-place finish, edging out the socialist prime minister, Lionel Jospin, to challenge the incumbent Chirac, 69, in today's run-off. Jospin and Chirac ran lackluster campaigns, while Le Pen espoused his anti-crime rhetoric and criticized the establishment for failing to note the concerns of everyday people. Le Pen's share of the vote _ 16.9 percent _ increased only marginally from what it was in the previous presidential election, Brown noted. Had the French left-wing vote not splintered, Le Pen would have again been dismissed as part of an irrelevant fringe. But that is not what happened. ``The European political class has lost contact with the people, to quite a large extent,'' Brown said. ``It really has lost touch with the concerns of ordinary people.'' Chief among those concerns are crime and immigration. There are now 5.5 million refugees in Europe, according to the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. By contrast, the number in North America is only 1 million. The hard right in Europe takes a hard stance against immigration _ advocating, in some cases, shipping immigrants back to their countries of origin in Asia, Africa, eastern Europe and the Middle East. Critics accuse the extreme right of using immigrants as scapegoats and fomenting ethnic intolerance. According to a poll published by the French newspaper Le Figaro, 74 percent of Le Pen voters said crime was the issue most important to them. And 60 percent cited immigration as a critical issue, as well. While Le Pen is expected to lose handily to Chirac, his appeal to certain voters is a sign that his National Front party could do well in parliamentary elections scheduled in June. Following his success, mainstream European leaders heaped scorn on Le Pen, who was once fined by a French tribunal for dismissing the Holocaust as a mere ``detail in the history of the second World War.'' British Prime Minister Tony Blair called him ``repellent'' and a racist. Many French voters agreed, taking to the streets in tears and near panic to urge Le Pen's defeat. News coverage of Le Pen's success assumed a tone of shock generally reserved for devastating earthquakes, and showed just how stunned the European mainstream was. But his victory was not the first indication of the increasing influence of the hard right in Europe. And it is unlikely to be the last. _ In Italy, right-wing media mogul Silvio Berlusconi _ who is allied with a party labeled ``racist and xenophobic'' by the Council of Europe _ took power last June. Concerns about immigration are particularly acute in Italy, which has a low birthrate and, absent immigration, a declining population. _ In Norway, an administration allied with the far-right Progress Party, took power last October. The Progress Party wants to cap immigration at 1,000 people per year. ``The thing I find worrying,'' said Brown, ``is the shift in the Scandinavian countries, where there has been a tradition of vegetarian-style liberal democracy, if I might put it that way.'' _ In Denmark, a conservative coalition that includes the far-right Danish People's Party, took office last November. It has drafted tough new asylum policies and cut the country's traditionally generous aid to the Third World. _ In Portugal, a right-wing coalition that includes the strongly anti-immigration Popular Party, won power last month. _ In Spain, Jose Maria Aznar won a second term in March 2000, heavily defeating his socialist opposition and winning the first conservative majority since Spain became a democracy in 1975. _ In Austria, the government came under intense international criticism when the far-right Freedom Party, which won 27.2 percent of the parliamentary vote in 1999 elections, formed a coalition with the conservative People's Party. The Freedom Party, which ran on a platform of halting the ``over-foreignization'' of Austria, has long drawn fire for espousing anti-immigrant policies and xenophobic views. _ In the Netherlands, which will hold elections May 15, a party led by strongly anti-immigration candidate named Pim Fortuyn is expected to win at least 20 of the parliament's 150 seats. ``That is unbelievable,'' commented Dick Leurdijk, of the country's Clingendael Institute of International Relations. _ And in Germany, polls show left-wing Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder trailing conservative Edmund Stoiber in a campaign that has until now focused on the economy and immigration. The election will be held in September. In all of these countries immigration has been a critical political concern. According to the U.S. Committee for Refugees, asylum seekers submitted 38,747 applications in France in the year 2,000, 16,000 applications in Italy, 18,284 in Austria, and 78,600 in Germany. ``The multi-cultural society is, in my eyes, absolutely the key issue,'' Leurdijk said. But a secondary issue is the role a stronger European government, the EU, is perceived to be playing in subsuming the national identities of different countries. Le Pen, for example, strongly opposes what he calls ``the federalization of Europe.'' Wary mainstream politicians, looking at the increasing strength of the right, are likely to put the brakes on further European integration, said Brown. Britain and Denmark seem less likely now to join in the use of the euro currency than they did a few months ago. The United Kingdom, too, has experienced a huge influx of migrants. In 2000, 76,040 people filed asylum applications in the country. In April, a member of Blair's cabinet, Home Secretary David Blunkett, drew criticism for saying that immigrants were ``swamping'' some British schools. Nevertheless, Britain's Labor Party, under Blair, may be showing the way to stem the rise of the hard right parties _ appropriate their issues. Blair has, for example, taken a very tough line on crime. Labor has historically been a left-of-center party but, Pavoncello said, it is governing from the right _ and pushing the conservatives out of the picture. One other factor, too, may limit the rise of the right _ the constant tendency toward change. ``Do not forget that it was only four years ago,'' said Leurdijk, ``that people were writing about why in so many countries in Europe there were socialist leaders.'' Don Melvin can be contacted at dmelvin(at)coxnews.com. ENDIT Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
