Wall Street gets another clue today as to just how strong the economic recovery is _ or isn't _ with the latest unemployment and job growth reports. With first-quarter corporate earnings reports mostly out of the way, economic news in general and employment news in particular are expected to drive stock prices in the near future. ``Wall Street will scrutinize key economic reports, particularly April's jobs situation, for more clues on the status of the economic rebound,'' said Prudential Securities analyst Bryan Piskorowski. ``Non-farm payrolls are expected to increase by 60,000 after a 58,000 jump in the previous month. However, the nation's unemployment rate is expected to tick up to 5.8 percent from 5.7 percent in March,'' he said. The Institute of Supply Management, made up of corporate purchasing officials, also is expected to report a slight upturn in service jobs in April. Analysts look for the ISM non-manufacturing index to rise to 57.5 from last month's 57.3. Any reading above 50 signals a business expansion. Meanwhile, stocks were mixed in Thursday's trading. Only the blue chip Dow Jones industrial average and the small-stock Russell 2000 indexes posted gains for the third straight session. The Dow was buoyed by gains in cyclical stocks that anticipate economic recovery: DuPont (DD), Caterpillar (CAT), International Paper (IP), 3m (MMM) and General Motors (GM). Technology stocks continued to suffer, however, with declines by International Business Machines (IBM), Intel (INTC) and Microsoft (MSFT). News that Xerox's (XRX) bond ratings had been cut again by Moody's Investors Service also hurt the market. The ratings change was based on the copier maker's heavy debt load. Bankrupt retailer Kmart (KM ) warned that it may have to restate past results after a probe of its accounting practices. By day's end, the Dow closed at 10,091.87 with a gain of 32.24 points, or 0.3 percent. The Dow is up 272 points over the past three sessions _ its first three-day winning streak since March 12. The Nasdaq composite index fell 32.66 points, or nearly 2.0 percent, to 1,644.87, and Standard &AMP; Poor's 500-stock index fell 1.90 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,084.56. Tom Walker writes for The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. E-mail: twalker(at)ajc.com Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
