With apparent American acquiescence, Israel has seen off an international effort to examine its army's behavior at the Jenin refugee camp during the invasion of the Palestinian territories last month. On May 1 Kofi Annan, the U.N.'s secretary-general, announced that he was disbanding the fact-finding team he had set up, because of Israel's reversal of its earlier decision to cooperate. ``The long shadow cast by recent events in the Jenin refugee camp will remain,'' he said. Israel still insisted that it had nothing to hide from an inquiry, despite the natural inference from its recalcitrance that it does. Ministers said they feared the ``politicization'' of the process, which could result in individual soldiers or politicians being arraigned before an international court. And Israel's old dread of the conflict being ``internationalized'' is widely heard. The ugliness and danger of the confrontation with the United Nations took Israeli ministers by surprise. They had been given to believe that a convenient deal had been worked out with the United States, whereby the siege of Yasser Arafat in his headquarters in Ramallah would be lifted in return for America ensuring that the Jenin inquiry would give Israel no grief. This was the backdrop to Israel's acceptance, on April 19, of a Security Council resolution, drafted by America, empowering Annan to set up the Jenin fact-finding team. Arafat was freed from his confinement on May 2 after Ariel Sharon was subject to a brief and rare application of insistence by George Bush. Israel's prime minister then rammed the decision to end the siege through the full cabinet on April 28. Six Palestinians, whose extradition Israel had been demanding as its latest condition for the release of Arafat, would instead be held by the Palestinian Authority, under the supervision of British and American guards. Cabinet hard-liners had balked at this and the prime minister himself admitted it was a zigzag: Only a week before he had sworn ``to go to elections if need be'' over his insistence on the six men's extradition. In fact, the extradition demand was itself a zigzag. Earlier, Israel had said it would lift the siege on Arafat if the men were arrested by the Palestinian Authority. This they duly were, only to find themselves trapped, together with their leader, when Sharon upped the ante. Sharon has been invited, as part of the general quid pro quo, to visit Washington next week. But the curious deal seems to have come nastily unstuck over the United Nations and its fact-finders. Israel had challenged the impartiality and expertise of the team appointed by Annan: Martti Ahtisaari, a former Finnish president; Sadako Ogata, a former UN high commissioner for refugees; and Cornelio Sommaruga, a former head of the International Committee of the Red Cross. It demanded that the team confine itself to Jenin and not extend its inquiry to the broader situation in the West Bank. At the same time it wanted the inquiry to extend backward to the activities of terrorist groups in the Jenin camp before the Israeli assault. It also insisted that the team should not call Israeli witnesses independently, but only in coordination with the Israeli authorities. Annan was visibly distressed at the turn of events, insisting that the United Nations had done everything it could to satisfy Israel's various concerns. But Israel's justice minister, Meir Sheetrit, insisted that ``The U.N. didn't keep its word ... the team's verdict is a foregone conclusion.'' All week, recriminations have been flying around Israel's cabinet. David Levy, a former foreign minister, accused the present incumbent, Shimon Peres, of botching the negotiations with Annan. Peres, for his part, criticized the army's near-frantic anxieties over the fact-finding team. The chief of staff, General Shaul Mofaz, had reportedly threatened to resign should a single soldier be summoned to testify. And, most important, a senior general, Amos Gilad, gave warning that the fact-finders would ``pave the way to the internationalization of the conflict.'' Over the government's dead body, it would seem. But the bugbear of internationalization is no longer regarded with universal Israeli terror. A poll taken last week by Tel Aviv University showed that about half of those asked would welcome outside involvement in settling a conflict that the partners are plainly unable to settle by themselves. More than one-third favored the deployment of an armed international force, and a quarter said they supported the idea of a settlement imposed by the international community. Internationalization is still far from being an election-winner. But one politician who believes it could be is Shlomo Ben-Ami, who was foreign minister and Israel's chief negotiator under the Barak government. Ben-Ami's formula is for ``internationally supervised disengagement.'' Israel would withdraw from some 90 percent of the territories to a temporary border line. The territories would be put under the control of an international body comprising America, the European Union and NATO. The temporary border would be policed by a multinational force, pending a final agreement along the lines of the one offered by Bill Clinton after the collapse of the Camp David summit. The international envelope, he argues, plus the international presence on the ground, would bring stability to the region. Ben-Ami is a lone voice, attacked from all points of the political compass. But his response to his numerous critics is cogent: ``Has your plan worked better?'' 
