To understand what this latest conflict is about, let's begin with Erica Belkin, a 16-year-old high school sophomore from Croton-on-Hudson. Belkin is a scout. She is also Jewish. Those two facts come together in that her plan for Sunday is to march in uniform with other scouts in the annual Salute to Israel Parade along Fifth Avenue in Manhattan. It seems that the Girl Scouts issue a Gold Award for community service. Belkin asked scouting officials in Westchester County whether, by encouraging others in her troop to join the parade, she might earn credit toward that award, in addition to putting more feet on Fifth Avenue. Her request seemed innocent enough. The Girls Scouts have a concept of ``religion recognition,'' said Ellen Christie, a spokeswoman at the organization's national offices in New York. ``Girls as a troop will earn a pin or a badge for exploring their religion more,'' she said. Given that general attitude, Belkin was stunned to hear from her local Girl Scouts council that if she and friends wanted to march on Sunday, they had to ditch the uniforms. An e-mail message from the council, written after discussions with an official at the national office, said, ``Aside from the safety concerns, it would not be appropriate for girls to be in uniform at this event, since it could be seen as advocating the Israeli side of the current conflict.'' ``Attending the parade can be seen as a political statement,'' the message said. ``Girl Scouting is not an advocacy organization.'' All this struck Belkin as odd. ``It shouldn't be a safety issue because there will be lots of police'' officers, she said. More to the point, she said, the Girl Scouts' Web site speaks glowingly of scouts' taking part in events like the St. Patrick's Day parade in March or the Cinco de Mayo Parade, also scheduled for this weekend. In each, one's cultural and religious identification is indistinguishable from solidarity with a foreign country: Ireland or Mexico. Why, Belkin asked, is this march different from all other marches? Soon enough, she wasn't the only one asking. ``Israel is very much a part of our culture,'' said Judith Lederman, a writer and public relations consultant in Scarsdale whose daughter, Esther, 9, is in a junior scout troop made up of observant Jews. ``To tell a girl that she can't be both a proud Girl Scout and a proud Jew is just not fair.'' Besides, Lederman and others said, uniformed Girl Scouts have been marching in the Israel Parade for several years. Boy Scouts are a fixture, too. ``This has never been viewed as a political parade,'' said Michael S. Miller, executive vice president of the Jewish Community Relations Council in New York. ``How does one separate out the cultural heritage of the Jews with the reality of the State of Israel?'' But the Girl Scouts held firm. So did a support group called the National Jewish Girl Scouts Council. Its chairwoman, Adele Wasko, noted in an e-mail message to Lederman that the parade this year was also being billed as ``Israel Solidarity Day.'' Leaders of her council, Wasko said, felt that ``there is a political connotation'' in the ``solidarity'' label. It was, some would say, an odd conclusion. Hasn't it always been obvious that people joining the parade, whether in good years or in these dark days, feel solidarity with Israel? A complication was that sensibilities on the Middle East are rubbed about as raw as they can be. Feelings hardened. Belkin vowed to defy the ban on uniforms. Lederman said her troop would do the same. Meanwhile, aside from Christie, Girl Scout officials ducked questions. Then Tuesday, with news organizations nosing around, the Scouts switched gears. Girls will indeed be allowed to march in uniform on Sunday, the same as with other parades. ``The way in which a Girl Scout fulfills her religious beliefs and political affiliations is a private matter for her to decide with her family,'' a statement said. Belkin and Lederman pronounced themselves thrilled. So that was that. Crisis averted. It was tempting to wish that differences could be settled that easily in the Middle East. But that would be reaching for the moon, wouldn't it? 
