As if Joe Tucci didn't have problems already. The stock market's version of water torture has been taking small bites out of EMC Corp.'s value for two weeks, pushing shares of the state's most important technology company below the ghastly $9 floor for most of Wednesday's session before closing at $9.20. This is one ugly backdrop for EMC's chief executive as he prepares for the company's annual meeting Wednesday. Get there early for a good seat. Tucci needs to accomplish two things at the EMC meeting. First, he has to assure shareholders their company has done everything possible to manage since the collapse of information technology spending by its clients and the stock market's abandonment of companies like EMC. He also has to give them some kind of hope for the future. What else could EMC's managers have done while the stock tumbled 78 percent in the past year? The toughest issue was whether Tucci should have cut costs much more aggressively as business declined, which is to say he should have laid off many more people. Tucci remained adamant that the current 19,000 head count is as low as EMC should go and, for now, I'd give him the benefit of the doubt. Plunging sales and growing competition are hurting EMC shares most, not the missing benefit of cents per share on the bottom line that would come with more layoffs. But it may still happen if business doesn't get off the floor because EMC's costs just don't line up with sales today. So what about the future? Any CEO standing before a roomful of investors who have lost money on a biblical scale has to be able to describe what the world will look like at the end of the tunnel and how their company will prosper in it. The problem is that EMC can't simply look forward to the day spending rebounds, like a wilted flower waiting for the drought to break. EMC needs a convincing explanation as to why profit margins, once astoundingly large, can be rebuilt to enviable if not comparable standards. That's no layup. Competition in the computer storage hardware business is much more intense now. Many competitors are battling at the lower end of the market. Hitachi is scoring against EMC at the high end. It's not the kind of environment that invites markups. The answer should be software. This is where EMC has been putting hundreds of millions of dollars of research and development every year, giving it a big potential advantage. Software can generate gigantic profit margins because it's cheap to replicate, and it's really where EMC's business has been headed for several years. Tucci makes no bones about the fact he wants to shift business so 30 percent of revenues come from software and 20 percent are derived from services. The complication is EMC's huge business of selling hardware to thousands of long-standing corporate customers. EMC would not call itself a software company or even openly aspire to such a description. Tucci will fudge the distinction next week and talk about EMC's advantage selling ``business solutions.'' Sounds like mush, doesn't it? Realistically, software development does more than just generate products everyone would recognize as software. Last week, EMC introduced a product called Centera for low-cost storage of ``fixed'' data that never needs updating, like images of canceled checks. The hardware itself is unabashedly commodity stuff, but the selling point is the ``intelligence'' inside. That's another way of saying software. You could argue Centera is a software product wrapped in hardware, and that's what gives it advantages to command better margins. The expectation of growing profit margins is what will attract investors when the technology sector rebounds. Stragglers in that recovery will become vulnerable and may not be able to control their futures. Where will EMC be when the pack begins to move higher? Steven Syre can be reached at syre(at)globe.com. 
