Eric Schaeffer says the most important events in the U.S. government are usually not the high-profile committee hearings and press conferences reported on nightly news shows or under newspaper headlines. Instead, he says, decisions affecting millions of lives often are hammered out by bureaucrats and special-interest lobbyists in office conferences and telephone conversations too dull to report. ``I think the public often gets mugged in these actions because people do not know what is going on when they need to know,'' he said. Now, with funding from the Rockefeller Family Fund, Schaeffer says he is going to do something about that. He is founding a new environmental group, to be called the Environmental Integrity Project, with him as president. ``I want to see if there is a way to sort of keep some of these issues in the public eye when the government is making the decisions,'' he said. ``Even though these decisions affect a lot of people, they are obscured by inside-the-Beltway jargon.'' Schaeffer resigned two months ago as head of the Environmental Protection Agency's office of regulatory enforcement, charging that White House politicians had undermined efforts to enforce a Clean Air Act provision known by a sleeping pill of a title, ``new source review.'' The provision exempted many factories, refineries, chemical plants and electric power plants from air pollution control requirements because they were operating when the law was passed. However, if the owner significantly expanded or modernized a facility and caused it to release additional pollution, it became a ``new source,'' subject to the federal requirements. In 1999, Schaeffer and other EPA officials hit on the idea of suing companies that were suspected of violating the provision. Dozens of coal-fired power plants in the South and Midwest were covered by the lawsuits. All that may sound about as interesting as some rule governing the width of irrigation ditches or the thickness of interstate highway exit ramps. But to power companies faced with the prospect of installing millions of dollars worth of pollution abatement equipment or to environmental and health advocacy groups, there was nothing boring about it. Power company lobbyists have made no secret of their efforts to get the EPA suits withdrawn and the ``new source review'' provision eliminated. Industry representatives discussed the issue last year with Vice President Dick Cheney's national energy policy task force, according to records that have been made public. And on Feb. 14, President Bush unveiled his ``Clear Skies Initiative'' to replace ``new source review' with a national limit on power plant pollutants and a plan to allow power companies to buy and sell ``credits'' earned for exceeding individual pollution goals. Critics of Schaeffer, including EPA Administrator Christine Todd Whitman, have said he disingenuously pictured himself as a ``martyr'' by walking out of his job two weeks after Bush announced his plan. In an interview with two Atlanta Journal-Constitution editors, Whitman said Schaeffer had a new job with the Rockefeller fund lined up long before he closed his office appointment book for the last time. ``First of all, understand that Eric Schaeffer had that job lined up for five weeks before he resigned,'' she said. ``I've heard that he'd gone out in a great huff over some particular thing and was this martyr who didn't have another position lined up and was putting his career on the line. And that's simply not true. We share his concerns about clean air.'' Scott Segal, a Washington lawyer who represents the Electric Reliability Coordinating Council, which was formed by Southern Co. of Atlanta and five other power companies, said Schaeffer should have left the government sooner. ``Eric feels very passionately about his issues,'' Segal said, ``but he is not above mischaracterizing both the law and the facts in order to prove a point. ``I believe he stayed in the government past the time that he could dispassionately dispatch the duties of his job,'' he added. Schaeffer acknowledges that he had a job lined up with the Rockefeller fund before he left EPA. When the Environmental Integrity Project is up and running, he will move onto its payroll. ``I have two kids and I wasn't going to leave the government without a job,'' he said. ``But it wasn't just about working. I had something I wanted to do.'' Frank O'Donnell, head of the Clean Air Trust, a small environmental group that was founded by the late Sen. Edmund Muskie, D-Me., author of the Clean Air Act, and former Sen. Robert Stafford, R-Vt., said Schaeffer was ``never a flaming zealot'' at EPA. ``He was a problem solver who sought to achieve results,'' O'Donnell said. ``It's a great shame that someone like that was effectively driven out of the government by bad politics above him.'' On the Web: Electric Reliability Coordinating Council: www.electricreliability.org Clean Air Trust: www.cleanairtrust.org Jeff Nesmith's e-mail address is jeffn(at)coxnews.com ENDIT Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
