A dozen Democratic senators proposed tougher work requirements for welfare recipients Thursday, changing the politics of the national debate over the future of the federal program that assists more than five million poor people. Until now, most of the demands for stricter work requirements had come from Republicans. The senators come from across the Democratic spectrum, including Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, John D. Rockefeller IV of West Virginia, Zell Miller of Georgia, John B. Breaux of Louisiana, Evan Bayh of Indiana and Thomas R. Carper of Delaware. Although supporting stricter work requirements, the Democrats insisted that Congress provide more money to states to subsidize child care. By contrast, they noted, President Bush has proposed tougher work requirements without any increase in child-care money. The Democrats said they, unlike Bush and most House Republicans, would let states restore welfare benefits to legal immigrants who are not citizens. Under the 1996 welfare law, most noncitizens are ineligible for such assistance. Just a few weeks ago many Democrats, including Breaux, were saying they saw no need to impose stricter work requirements on welfare recipients, as Bush proposed in February. But the Democrats declared Thursday that Congress must adopt ``tougher work requirements,'' in the words of Sen. Blanche Lincoln, D-Ark. In recent weeks, many House Democrats, governors of both parties and antipoverty groups have denounced stricter work requirements, saying they cannot be achieved. But the Senate Democrats said Thursday that states could achieve the requirements if Congress provided additional money for child care and allowed states to continue using welfare money as they saw fit, for education and training and literacy programs. ``The new work requirements will not kick in if the child care money doesn't come through,'' Clinton said. ``If you don't provide quality, affordable child care, then the work requirements are basically a charade.'' The proposals provide significant political support for Republican efforts to increase the work requirements, but they also put pressure on Bush and other Republicans to find more money for child care, job training and other social services. A Bush administration official welcomed the Democrats' emphasis on work, saying: ``We are very pleased with these proposals. The legislative process is moving forward. We recognize that the final bill will probably provide more money than we originally proposed for child care. We could accept a modest increase, but we want to make sure it's modest.'' The number of people on welfare has fallen by more than 50 percent since Congress passed the landmark 1996 law, which gives each state a lump sum of federal money for welfare. Major provisions of that law expire this year. By a party-line vote of 23 to 16, the House Ways and Means Committee approved a bill Thursday to reauthorize the welfare program for five years, with stricter work requirements. The committee chairman, Rep. Bill Thomas, R-Calif., said he would add money for child care when the bill reached the House floor this month. The Democratic senators offered two welfare plans Thursday, but both called for tougher work requirements and more child-care money. ``People don't want to be perceived as weak on work,'' Breaux said. One proposal was written by nine Democrats led by Bayh and Carper, both former governors. The other, a bipartisan plan, was drafted by six members of the Senate Finance Committee, including Breaux, Lincoln and Rockefeller. Both plans say that, by 2007, at least 70 percent of adult welfare recipients in each state must be engaged in work and other supervised activities, up from 50 percent under current law. Bayh boasted that he, like Bush, would require most welfare recipients to engage in 40 hours of work and related activities each week, up from the 30 hours required under current law. Aides to Clinton said she was initially uncomfortable with the Bayh-Carper proposal, but embraced it after persuading the two men to add money for child care, Medicaid, immigrants' benefits, education and training. Bayh described his proposal as ``a centrist approach that synthesizes the best ideas from the left and the right.'' Breaux's proposal was developed with the help of two Republican senators, Orrin G. Hatch of Utah and Olympia J. Snowe of Maine, and Sen. James M. Jeffords of Vermont, an independent. 
