In the past three weeks, 600 specially trained Afghan troops have joined dozens _ sometimes hundreds _ of American and British commandos in six raids on Qaida hideouts, two senior Afghan commanders here in Khost said Wednesday. But while a trove of weapons and ammunition has been seized in these operations, not a single Qaida soldier has been killed and only two suspects have been taken into custody. ``When we get there, they are gone,'' said one of the commanders, who spoke on condition of anonymity, saying he did not want to offend his American colleagues. The White House has repeatedly insisted that the war against terrorism will require patience, and the experience of recent months certainly proves it. In the past few days, about 800 U.S.-led coalition forces have joined Afghan troops in sweeping into an area here in the rolling hills and craggy mountains of eastern Afghanistan. In Washington and at the U.S. Central Command in Tampa, senior military officials said Wednesday that American helicopters have ferried hundreds of troops into a mountain range south of the Shah-e-Kot Valley, where in March the coalition staged the largest ground action in the seven-month war. The allied fighters include about 100 Americans, including Special Forces and soldiers from the 101st Airborne Division, as well as Canadian, Australian and British troops. Their mission has been to clear caves, valleys and mountain ridges, and kill or capture Taliban or Qaida fighters they encounter. Afghan soldiers bivouacked at the Sahara Bagh post in Khost say that operations involving hundreds of soldiers have become commonplace in recent weeks, especially with the arrival in April of 1,700 British Royal Marines. (About 1,000 of those Royal Marines are conducting search operations in southeastern Afghanistan, with about 500 of those troops joining the coalition forces here, a senior American military official said.) ``In Mustalbar, we had about 300 British soldiers and 60 Americans along with 500 of my own soldiers,'' said an Afghan commander. He named villages in the region around Khost where raids have occurred: Mustalbar, Mandozai, Soroobi, Zani Khel, Terizai, Nariz, Dangi, Ghlang, Tani. ``In different places we've done things different ways,'' he said, ``but we never come across many al-Qaida. They have no strong base. They are spread out. Anyway, during the day they may be in one place and during the night in another.'' Pentagon officials say that at any given time, there are more than a dozen specific missions. Senior American officers discounted any impending large-scale attack like the one that took place in March, largely because fighters have dispersed and are being tracked down in smaller numbers. ``What you're seeing are pieces and subpieces of Mountain Lion, and you'll see it for weeks to come,'' said one senior American military official, using the operation's military name. Although the remaining forces are often said to be massed in the area around Khost, the area is huge, cavernous and concealing. It also spans two countries, leading into the tribal areas of Pakistan, where there is broad sympathy for radical Islam. ``The situation in Afghanistan is far from over,'' Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld told reporters in Washington. ``There is no question that in the country and over the border, there still are a nontrivial number of those folks that would very much like to take back the country and that would very much like to attack coalition forces.'' The coalition has begun to mount raids on both sides of the border. Within the past week or so, a small number of U.S. Special Forces, mainly communications and intelligence specialists, have begun operating with Pakistani troops in the tribal zone. This arrangement has improved coordination between allied forces in Afghanistan and Pakistan troops, and allowed both sides to target fighters traveling back and forth across the border. But the presence of even a few Americans is anathema to many of the people who live in this storied backwater of the Pakistani northwest. Wednesday, before dawn, a rocket was fired at a vocational training school housing American forces in the tribal town of Miran Shah, Pakistani officials said. The projectile missed its presumed target, hitting instead an empty building nearby. No one was hurt. It was not known who fired the rocket, but searchers turned up pamphlets from a previously unknown group called Mujahedeen of North Waziristan, where Miran Shah is located. The flyers warned residents to ``wake up'' because Muslim hypocrites had ``challenged Islamic honor'' by allowing the American presence. Osama bin Laden himself has been seen in the past few weeks in Waziristan, according to an intelligence official in the Afghan government. Before that, bin Laden, the godfather of al-Qaida, was spotted in the Tirah Valley of the tribal area, the same official said. (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS) While al-Qaida soldiers may be hard to locate, former members of the Taliban militia are not. Many have simply changed turbans _ and some have not even bothered to do that. Many are retread soldiers, now among the 600 specially trained in Khost by the Americans and paid $200 a month. These legions, former Taliban or not, are pleased with their assignment. Not only are they receiving training in marksmanship and mortars and grenades, they are also getting pastries for breakfast and meat with their rice at lunch. Every soldier has a new uniform and a pair of sneakers. There are beds to sleep on within the shelter of sturdy canvas tents. These troops were provided to the American military by a Khost warlord, Kamal Khan Zadran, who says he still has 3,500 men in reserve. ``I like helping the Americans,'' he said. Warlords make for strange bedfellows, and the American military has climbed under the covers with a good many of them. Expediency prevails during wartime. Zadran, the sixth of seven sons, is the younger brother of the more notorious Padsha Khan Zadran, who, adding to a colorful history of misdeeds, on Saturday ordered his soldiers to indiscriminately fire hundreds of rockets into the city of Gardez, killing at least 25 people, mostly women and children. On Tuesday night, Afghanistan's American-backed interim chairman, Hamid Karzai, called the older Zadran a ``murderer'' and promised to bring him to justice. Both of the Zadrans have received U.S. support, as have the warlords Abdul Rashid Dostum and Ostad Atta Muhammad, whose soldiers clashed on Tuesday and Wednesday in the northern cities of Sarepul and Shulgarah. At least six people were killed. Warlords are now at each other's throats in several provinces, seeking the spoils of a post-Taliban Afghanistan. Karzai is trying to settle some of these disputes by appointing new provincial governors. Wednesday, here in Khost, where gunmen loyal to two rival police chiefs engaged in a murderous shootout just last week, an unlikely strongman arrived in the city to assume the governorship from the preferred candidate of Kamal Khan Zadran. ``God help me,'' said the new arrival, Hakim Taniwal, a slight, bespectacled, 56-year-old sociology professor who until February had been living a sedate life as an Afghan exile in Australia. Two former classmates now associated with the fledgling Karzai government prevailed upon Taniwal to accept a challenge, bringing good government to the Afghan badlands. Among his credentials is membership in the Tani tribe, whose people are known for their toughness. Otherwise, his resume notably includes studies in Frankfurt, Heidelberg and Freiberg _ an unusual amount of learning in a place where education is largely confined to the care and loading of grenade launchers and machine guns. ``I was reluctant to take the job,'' he said, moments after first entering the Governor's Guest House, his new home. ``But this is a new Afghanistan. Many people from Khost came to me and requested that I try. When I met them, and heard how much they needed me, I decided that maybe I should, oh, what is the word?'' Suddenly, his English had failed him. He only could recall the correct word in Pashto. Finally, someone whispered the answer. ``Oh yes,'' the new governor said. ``I decided that maybe I should dare.'' 
