You can give dolls to little boys and baseball gloves to little girls, and you can encourage boys to take ballet and girls to try out for Little League _ but when they're all grown up, there will probably be some fundamental differences between some women and some men. Like the shopping thing. When it comes to shopping, we're still stuck in the 1950s, with a high percentage of the female population who readily admit they still enjoy it. They eagerly anticipate the next time they'll do the shopping thing, return from a vacation halfway across the world and talk about nothing but shopping _ whereas the majority of men rate shopping somewhere below changing the oil on the minivan and getting a prostate exam on their list of free-time activities. OK, trips to Home Depot don't count. Guys aren't shopping when they go to Home Depot _ they're on a mission to hunt down the exact tool or part or drill bit or screw or piece of wood that will allow them to finish a job they started in the basement during the Reagan administration. Besides, they know what they want in a Tim Allen ``Home Improvement'' kind of way, and they don't want to browse the aisles. I was reminded of the shopping discrepancy when I recently bumped into a woman friend and we took an afternoon coffee break. After I recapped my workday to that point, she told me about the best thing that had happened at her office that day. ``We had a cosmetics party,'' she told me. ``You had a what?'' ``A cosmetics party. I got some great bargains.'' She proceeded to explain that one of her co-workers knows somebody who gets all kinds of makeup paraphernalia _ nail polish and what have you _ at a discount and passes these savings along to friends and friends of friends. There's nothing illegal or unethical going on, it's just ... well, it's a cosmetics party, and it took place during lunch hour at this business. Understand _ my acquaintance is a serious person who has a grown-up job in a big, brick building where everyone walks with a sense of purpose and carries leather satchels filled with important papers. We're not talking about four cashiers with big hair and poorly sketched tattoos scrambling over a basket of fire-engine-red nail polish in the back room of a truck stop while on a cigarette break. And it's not just cosmetics. Another friend mentioned that there was a jewelry sale at her office the other day _ all sorts of high-quality costume pieces, priced to move. ``The women in my office were going nuts,'' she said, and she counted herself among the nut cases. Then there are the all-women parties that are more likely to take place in someone's home, but involve essentially the same routine: 10 or 20 women get together to hear about the latest line of products, and then they pull out their credit cards and go bonkers. (I suspect there's probably a lot of white wine involved as well.) For instance, candle parties. I would have thought that you could buy enough candles to shoot an episode of ``Red Shoe Diaries'' at any potpourri store, but it turns out there are so many sizes, shapes, styles and scents of candles that one can make a decent living-on-the-side by selling candles to friends, relatives and co-workers. We're talking about candles that smell like a specific type of tree and triple-wick candles the size of R2-D2. We're talking about candles that if thrown properly could fell a moose. Basket parties are also increasingly popular. Until recently I would have thought Longaberger Basket was the name of a 7-foot-3 hoops prodigy from Hungary _ but the Longaberger family is a basket-weaving dynasty that started with one store in an old woolen mill in Dresden, Ohio, and has grown into a $1 billion operation with more than 7,000 basket-makers creating products sold by more than 70,000 ``Independent Sales Associates,'' i.e., women who have ``basket shows.'' Other females are hosting shows featuring products by The Pampered Chef, PartyLite and Southern Living at Home _ and of course, we continue to see thousands of women hosting Tupperware parties, as well as sexy-lingerie-and-sex-toy parties. For all I know some enterprising saleswoman has combined those latter two by now. The latest free-lance shopping craze comes in the form of botox bashes, where women of a certain age congregate to sip champagne and get injected with the muscle-paralyzing wrinkle-eliminator that gives them that waxy-frozen look popularized by Joan Rivers and good-looking corpses everywhere. Now sure, lots of men have an interest in buying certain products, like golf balls and cigars and the smallest cell phone in existence. But if some man showed up at work and said, ``Hey, my brother-in-law has a bunch of neon beer signs, old baseball cards and free weights that he got at cost, wanna see the catalog?'' we wouldn't get together at lunch to ogle the merchandise. Or would we? (Richard Roeper (rroeper(at)suntimes.com) is a columnist for the Chicago Sun-Times and the co-host of ``Ebert &AMP; Roeper and the Movies.'') 
