Consumers spent a record amount on marine and consumer Global Positioning System devices during the first three months of the year, leading Garmin Ltd. to its best first quarter ever. The Olathe, Kan.,-based company on Wednesday reported first-quarter net income of $26.8 million _ up more than 12 percent from the first three months of 2001. ``Demand for Garmin products remains strong,'' said Min Kao, co-chief executive and co-chairman of Garmin. ``Our consumer segment recorded a 28 percent growth in revenues.'' Earnings for the quarter were 25 cents a share, exceeding the 24-cents-a-share prediction from Wall Street analysts. Overall, Garmin reported an 18 percent increase in revenues for the quarter. The company's total revenues were $100.9 million, up from $85.5 million during the first quarter of 2001. Garmin manufactures and sells Global Positioning System devices and recreational electronics for things as varied as commercial aircraft and weekend fishermen. The company sells products ranging in price from about $100 to more than $10,000. Kevin Rauckman, Garmin's chief financial officer, said much of the growth can be attributed to new consumer products introduced by the company during the past 18 months. The company has been bucking the rest of the economy since Sept. 11, showing a 20 percent consumer sales increase during the fourth quarter of last year. Garmin introduced 25 products in 2001 and plans to introduce another 25 this year. About 75 percent of Garmin's revenues _ $74.8 million during the first quarter _ now come from consumer products. That's up from 2000, when the company went public and about two-thirds of its revenues came from consumer products. Rauckman said Garmin has reached agreements with both Target and Circuit City to sell products in all U.S. stores operated by those companies. Consumers are opting to spend more to buy higher-end products, Rauckman said. The average selling price increased 22 percent from the 2001 first quarter to the 2002 first quarter. Garmin's aviation business also is picking up after a slowdown following the Sept. 11 attacks, Kao said. He said sales of aviation equipment reached $26.1 million during the first quarter. Shares of Garmin stock closed Wednesday at $22.80, up 29 cents. Garmin on Wednesday also made announcements about two of the company's newest products. The company reported its first major customer for NavTalk GSM, a cell phone with a built-in GPS receiver and mapping technology. Garmin reached a deal with CEC Telecom Co. of China, which will sell the Garmin NavTalk GSM cell phones in China and Hong Kong. The company characterized CEC's initial order as a multimillion-dollar deal but did not disclose specifics. ``CEC Telecom has an extensive national sales force to successfully roll out the NavTalk in China and establish the benefits of GPS-enabled products in a new, exciting market for our company,'' said Gary Burrell, Garmin's co-chief executive and co-chairman. The NavTalk GSM works on wireless networks using GSM technology, like those utilized in China and Europe. Garmin is developing a CDMA version, which would work with U.S. systems using that technology, including Sprint PCS. The phones include a feature called ``position reporting,'' which allows users to transmit their position to other users and see where others are using a map on the phone's screen. In a second announcement, Kao said Garmin had received a patent for technology used in another product, the Garmin Rino. The letters in ``Rino'' stand for ``Radios Integrated with Navigation for the Outdoors.'' The devices are short-range Family Radio Service (FRS) radios that double as GPS devices. Garmin received the patent for ``peer-to-peer position reporting,'' used in the radios. The system allows one user to send his or her position to another user and have that position show up on a map on the receiver's radio. The company is in the final stages of development of the Rino radios, which are aimed toward campers, hunters and hikers for safety and to keep in contact with others in their group. ``We have long believed in the ability of GPS technology to deliver lifesaving capabilities, and our Rino products are an extension of that belief,'' Kao said. The Rino radios are expected to be in stores this summer, with prices ranging from $211 to $311. 
