Despite their recent ascendancy, Virginia Republicans seem adept at sabotaging themselves. The latest embarrassment has been the indictment of Edmund Matricardi, formerly executive director of the state party, for eavesdropping on two telephone conferences in March between leading Democrats, one of them involving Mark Warner, the state's new governor. Matricardi is said to have recorded and transcribed the calls and then passed the information on, though prosecutors will not say to whom. If convicted, he could go to prison for 20 years. As political controversies go, this is small beer, but it fits a self-destructive pattern for the Virginia Republicans. Majorities in the House and Senate have allowed divisions to open up within the Republican Party. In the 2002 General Assembly session, centrists fretted over fiscal policy while the right wing argued for more restrictions on abortion and for symbolic social legislation, including one bill _ eventually withdrawn _ requiring public display of the Ten Commandments. The tension clearly weakened the Republican candidate for governor last year and helped Warner. His victory led in turn to national humiliation for Virginia's Republicans when James Gilmore, the previous governor, was replaced as chairman of the Republican National Committee. Virginia's Democrats had their own scandal over electronic eavesdropping a decade ago. A federal investigation nearly led to the indictment of Charles Robb, the last Democratic senator from Virginia before Warner. The scandal intensified bickering within the Democratic Party and hastened its decline, as jittery Republicans remember only too well. The bickering is not confined to one party now. Last year Warner campaigned against Gilmore's highhandedness with the legislature and promised to ensure cooperation between the parties. The Matricardi affair has put an end to that plan. The eavesdropping case has also complicated the already knotty matter of redistricting. After breaking a century of Democratic legislative hegemony in November 1999, Republicans in the House of Delegates artfully went about drawing many remaining Democratic antagonists out of their districts. But a judge ruled that they had gone too far, boosting their numbers in heavily white regions by racial gerrymandering elsewhere. The judge also ordered special elections this autumn. That enraged Republicans, but it also raised fears that the party could lose seats. Legal maneuvering by Republicans is now largely directed at averting fresh elections. That was where Matricardi came in. The calls he listened in on were debates about the Democrats' next move in the redistricting dispute, which is now on its way to Virginia's Supreme Court and may go all the way to the federal one. The investigation and indictment of Matricardi may have made it difficult, if not impossible, for the Republicans to challenge the trial judge's objectivity by spotlighting his Democratic pedigree. They now have plenty of questions about their own partisanship to answer. 
