The following material from the May 2 issue of THE ECONOMIST magazine is for use by subscribers of the New York Times Syndicate's ECONOMIST news service. Nonsubscribers can use these articles only by special arrangement. For purchase information, call Debra Weydert at 732-390-4480. Articles from The Economist are now available to Canadian publications. 	COMMENTARY (moved in 'k' and 'a' category codes) 	REFORMING SOUTH AFRICA'S UNIVERSITIES 	SOUTH-AFRICA-ECONOMIST _ Can Mark Shuttleworth, the South African who this week is enjoying a rather expensive holiday in space, tempt more students to study science? After his return to earth on May 5, Shuttleworth plans to tour South Africa to convince the young that science is hip. He will have his work cut out for him. Although employers yearn for math and science graduates, students prefer softer disciplines such as public administration and the humanities. Only 15 percent of youngsters, half the rate of a rich country like Britain, make it to campus, and only one in six of these actually earns a degree, Education Minister Kader Asmal says. For black South Africans, the figures are even worse. 	IS ANTI-SEMITISM REALLY RIFE IN EUROPE? 	ANTI-SEMITISM-ECONOMIST _ In the months since Sept. 11, Europe has seen an increase in attacks on synagogues and other Jewish centers, a rise in threats and intimidation directed at individual Jews and an increase in anti-Jewish propaganda of one sort or another. On April 21 Jean-Marie Le Pen, the blithely anti-Semitic leader of the far-right National Front, gained second place in the first round of the French presidential election _ a remarkable victory, however bad a drubbing he gets in Sunday's second round. In Germany armed police guard Jewish schools, and Jews are advised not to wear visible signs of their faith. In Britain, often praised for its tolerance, a synagogue was attacked and desecrated this very week. 	AMERICA, EUROPE AND NATO AT THE CROSSROADS 	AMERICA-NATO-ECONOMIST _ To put it bluntly, if NATO, the military arm of the trans-Aatlantic alliance, had not existed in the post-Sept. 11 world, would anyone be seeking to invent it? Not in its present form, it has to be said. But though the dangers facing Americans and Europeans have changed, the need for collective defense against them has not. The next terrorist attack could strike Berlin or Paris as easily as New York or Washington. These and other threats, in an age of far-flying missiles, could come from anywhere. So NATO needs to be better prepared to deal with them, ready at times to venture beyond its European stomping grounds. 	THE TELECOM SLUMP DEEPENS 	TELECOM-SLUMP-ECONOMIST _ Another week, another crop of bad news from the telecom industry. Bernie Ebbers, the chief executive of WorldCom, was forced out. The share price of Qwest, another heavily indebted American telecom company, fell to an all-time low, after it announced a first-quarter loss of $698 million. Siemens, a German company, said that it would cut 6,500 jobs in its telecom-infrastructure division, on top of 10,000 layoffs already announced. Marconi and JDS Uniphase, two other network-equipment vendors, announced or gave warning of gloomy results. Even as the broader economic climate begins to improve, the carnage in telecom continues. 	PAKISTAN'S REFERENDUM DOESN'T SOLVE MUCH 	PAKISTAN-ECONOMIST _ It probably seemed like a good plan at the time. Lauded in the West for backing America's war on terror and admired at home for taking on both corrupt politicians and extremist mullahs while avoiding dictatorial excess, Gen. Pervez Musharraf must have thought that he would sail through this week's referendum on his assumed presidency and use it to cement himself into power. On April 30 the electorate duly granted the general a five-year presidential term. But his problems may only now be beginning. 	HOW SAFE ARE FREQUENT-FLYER MILES? 	FREQUENT-FLYER-MILES-ECONOMIST _ Frequent-flyer miles have come of age. Twenty-one years ago this week, American Airlines launched AAdvantage, the world's first mileage-based frequent-flyer program. Today, some 100 million people around the world belong to at least one such program. One in three American adults collects frequent-flyer miles. But how safe are they? 	AMERICA AND THE ARAB WORLD 	AMERICA-ARABS-ECONOMIST _ After a nail-biting run of zigzags, shortcuts and back-seat squabbling, President George W. Bush has finally had the sense to stop and ask directions in his policy toward the Middle East. It is true that the man he asked, Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, upbraided him for dangerous driving and gave Bush a map that he may not want to follow. But at least the occupants of the vehicle have a chance to think about where they are going. The main achievement of last week's Crawford summit with Prince Abdullah was to involve Bush himself more directly in Middle Eastern policy. In the past, he has intervened largely to support _ or sometimes undermine _ his emissaries. This time, he was the principal in the talks and in the diplomacy that followed. 	LOS ANGELES 10 YEARS ON FROM THE RIOTS 	LOS-ANGELES-RIOTS-ECONOMIST _ Can coffee and doughnuts revive a neighborhood? The people of South Central Los Angeles, where the worst American riots of the 20th century erupted 10 years ago, certainly hope so. In South Central the opening of a branch of Starbucks, or of a Krispy Kreme doughnut shop, is still rare and cause for celebration. The riots were triggered by the acquittal of four white police officers who had been recorded on videotape beating Rodney King, a black man caught after a high-speed car chase. The four days of arson, looting and violence that followed left 54 people dead, sent 2,400 to hospital and destroyed $1 billion worth of property. 	VIRGINIA'S REPUBLICANS BESET BY SCANDALS 	VIRGINIA-SCANDALS-ECONOMIST _ Despite their recent ascendancy, Virginia Republicans seem adept at sabotaging themselves. The latest embarrassment has been the indictment of Edmund Matricardi, formerly executive director of the state party, for eavesdropping on two telephone conferences in March between leading Democrats, one of them involving Mark Warner, the state's new governor. Matricardi is said to have recorded and transcribed the calls and then passed the information on, though prosecutors will not say to whom. If convicted, he could go to prison for 20 years. 	THE MAYOR OF PROVIDENCE 	MAYOR-PROVIDENCE-ECONOMIST _ The citizens of Providence, R.I., never thought their mayor was a choirboy. After all, Vincent Cianci _ ``Buddy'' to all the world _ was convicted in 1984 of kidnapping his then wife's alleged lover and torturing him with lit cigarettes. But he was re-elected anyway, and is now the longest-serving big-city mayor in America. He owes his success to his considerable charm and enough old-time political razzle-dazzle to make Bill Clinton look shy. On his permanent campaign, Cianci kisses anything that moves: not just babies, but baby pigs. He even sells a spaghetti sauce, ``Mayor's Own,'' to raise money for charity and to put his face in supermarkets all over town. 	WHY ONE GROUP OF AMERICAN JEWS FEELS IMPELLED TO VISIT ISRAEL 	AMERICAN-JEWS-ECONOMIST _ When Larry Zicklin, the president of the UJA-Federation of New York, a Jewish charity, thought in early March that he might organize a package tour to Israel, few people seemed interested. But after the Passover killings on March 27, and with reports of a rising wave of anti-Semitism in Europe, all that changed. By last Sunday, 164 people had signed up. One was Joe Cooper, an elderly stockbroker, returning to Israel as he had at the time of previous wars in 1967, 1973 and 1991. ``The world has taught us that if we do not support ourselves we will lose the right to exist, and that has never been more important than now,'' he says. The American visitors speak of the shared legacy of facing anti-Semitism, of losing relatives in the Holocaust, and of awe for Israel's progress over the years. They fear that tolerance for the repressive regimes on Israel's borders could mean that all this is lost. 	BRAZIL'S HIGH-TECH DREAM 	BRAZIL-DREAM-ECONOMIST _ Looking enviously at Asian tigers such as Taiwan and South Korea, which have become big exporters of high-tech goods, Brazil dreams of becoming a Latin jaguar. Last year, after six years of external deficits and a big currency devaluation, it finally achieved a surplus in its trade in goods of $2.6 billion. But this was dwarfed by a $27 billion deficit in services, debt payments and other invisibles. The prices of the country's exports of food and raw materials remain weak. The answer, the government says _ and its opponents agree _ is to boost production and exports of more sophisticated goods, from electronics to petrochemicals. 	ISRAEL AND THE OUTSIDE 	ISRAEL-OUTSIDE-ECONOMIST _ With apparent American acquiescence, Israel has seen off an international effort to examine its army's behavior at the Jenin refugee camp during the invasion of the Palestinian territories last month. On May 1 Kofi Annan, the U.N.'s secretary-general, announced that he was disbanding the fact-finding team he had set up, because of Israel's reversal of its earlier decision to cooperate. ``The long shadow cast by recent events in the Jenin refugee camp will remain,'' he said. 	PALESTINIANS WELCOME INTERNATIONALIZATION 	PALESTINIANS-ECONOMIST _ The prospect of outside intervention, anathema to most Israelis, is a saving grace to Palestinians. On May 2 Yasser Arafat was released from his imprisonment in Ramallah, courtesy of a model he wants applied throughout the occupied territories: the insertion of foreign security men. Any international force would have a dual function, protecting Israelis from terrorism as well as Palestinians from assault. But Arafat sees it, above all, as shielding his regime and himself from an Israeli leader who is out to get both. 	CAN IRAN AND AMERICA GET TOGETHER? 	IRAN-AMERICA-ECONOMIST _ The man at the center of Iran's latest, incoherent bid to improve its relations with the United States was in a roughly similar position 16 years ago. The results then were unfortunate. And the results of the present confused, backbiting process look like being no less futile. In 1986, when Iran was in the middle of its long war with Iraq, Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani's political enemies gleefully disclosed his secret plan to buy arms from America, Iraq's offstage protector. The plan was abandoned. But Rafsanjani got his revenge when the main whistle-blower was executed. Now, once again, Rafsanjani's opponents are accusing him, but in whispers this time, of communicating behind their backs with the enemy. 	(Distributed by New York Times Special Features) 
