An escalation of threats and deadly violence against human rights workers in Guatemala has prompted fears of a new crisis of political violence as the country struggles to recover from decades of civil war. On Monday, an accountant for the foundation started by Nobel Laureate Rigoberta Menchu, a prominent human rights group here, was shot dead in a cafeteria in the capital. Police said it was a robbery, but rights advocates doubted that conclusion. Also this week, four forensic anthropologists who have unearthed the skeletons of thousands of massacre victims decided to leave the country after they and their families were threatened with death, in some cases at gunpoint. No one knows who is responsible for the threats. Rights group suspect they come from former military and intelligence officers involved in mass killings during Guatemala's 36-year civil war, which ended in 1996. President Alfonso Portillo has vowed to prosecute those responsible for the threats. But given his government's scarce resources and ample domestic political problems, rights groups say that he has little more than promises to offer. ``The state has shown an inability to investigate these crimes and threats,'' said Jose Miguel Vivanco, the director of the Americas division of Human Rights Watch, who has met several times with the Guatemalan leader. Authorities said that the accountant was killed after a hold-up turned into a shootout between the assailants and an armed customer at the busy cafeteria. Two men were soon arrested for the crime and identified by witnesses, they said. However, rights workers said said that one of the alleged gunmen was previously spotted lurking outside the Menchu foundation's offices, raising the possibility that the robbery was a cover for a politically motivated murder. ``The police should investigate all hypotheses and if the state has evidence which shows it to be a common crime, let them put it on the table and convince us,'' Menchu said Thursday at a Guatemala City news conference. Police officials have often cited common crime to explain for past attacks against human rights workers. But rights advocates said that a recent series of detailed threats against 11 forensic anthropologists working in Guatemala appears to be an organized campaign. Since the mid 1990s, the anthropologists have excavated the remains of more than 2,000 people in 200 clandestine graves . Their evidence has been used to bring genocide charges against current and former government and military officials. ``For 10 years we have known who you are and let you be,'' said a letter sent to the 11 anthropologists in late February. ``Now it is time to settle accounts.'' Threatening and obscene phone calls to their homes and loved ones in Guatemala City soon followed, leading the police to post guards at the headquarters of the Guatemalan Forensic Anthropology Foundation, which has done the most important exhumations and is financed by the United States and the Netherlands. Fredy Peccerelli, the organization's president, decided this week to leave the country after three armed men threatened his brother on the street in the capital last month. ``Tell your brother and his friends that this isn't over,'' Peccerelli's brother was told. ``Next time we are going to kill you.'' (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.) Three of his colleagues have also fled Guatemala because of the threats. ``It is hard to have worked so many years to create something that is working so well and then have to abandon it,'' Peccerelli said. ``This is such a critical moment in our work.'' Eduardo Arevalo Lacs, the Minister of the Interior, said he was willing to assign more police officers to guard them. ``We will not permit any illegal acts by any group, much less a secret outlaw band,'' he said. Clyde Snow, an internationally-recognized forensics expert who helped start the Guatemalan team, said that their work was getting close to former military officers, including Efrain Rios Montt, a former general and junta leader during the war's harshest period who is now president of the Congress. ``These people are probably more afraid of the dead than they are of the living,'' Snow said. ``Witnesses may forget throughout the years, but the dead, those skeletons, they don't forget. Their testimony is silent, but it is also very eloquent.'' 
