To tile or not to tile, perchance to put down sheet vinyl? These were questions we received from a Brookline couple concerning the tiling of their old bathroom floor. Q. There is a large crack in the tiled bathroom floor (mosaic) in our 1929 condo. We'd like new tile on top of the old, but a tile man said that with that crack, he could not warranty the work against future cracks. There is an old toilet and old pedestal sink that the plumber is reluctant to move because they are so old, so the new tile would have to butt up to the toilet and pedestal. Is that OK? Should we take a chance and go ahead with the new tile or put down sheet vinyl? There is no agreement over the use of sheet vinyl, and taking up the old tile is not practical because of the fixtures that would have to stay in place. The area is only about 50 square feet. DEBBY &AMP; LARRY ONIE, Brookline  ----- A. Your dilemma is quite a tempest, not in a teapot but in a pretty small bathroom. I agree with whoever is against the sheet vinyl. Why put in plastic when you can use perfectly good tile? You also said that filling the crack is not in the picture, although I think that would be a good thing to do. The crack occurred because of a shift in the house, settling, or an earthquake (not the April 20 one). Shifting or settling is unlikely to recur, and an earthquake is out of your hands. As for why the tile man said he would not warrant a tile job because of the crack, I know of no tile man who will warrant a tiled floor against cracks. So, go ahead with the new tile over the old. Use mosaic tile and sand the old tile heavily so the thin-set mortar that will be used as an adhesive will stick properly to the old tile. Use porcelain tile; it is china all the way through, not a glazed clay, and might resist the pressure of future shifting or settling. The tile installer can fit tile around the toilet and pedestal, and fill in the joint with grout. It is not quite the right way to do it, but it's OK. The only alternative is that sheet vinyl, if you can agree on one. Make sure it is well patterned; the tiles will ghost through smooth, unpatterned sheet vinyl and you will see their outlines. The pattern will keep them from showing. One more thing: Fill that crack with thin-set mortar before putting down the new tiles. Q. I have casement windows in my condo, and I can crank them out but I can't crank them back. What's wrong and how can I fix those cranks? RITA SMITH, Franklin  ----- A. If you can pull them back by hand, that is one way, temporarily, to handle it. Make sure the crank arm has not come loose from the bottom edge, inside the window. To make a permanent repair, find the manufacturer (it should be imprinted on the window), and see if you can get a replacement crank. If the window is an Andersen, you can take off a crank and take it to Home Depot, which should have a replacement. If you don't know the manufacturer, check with Bronze Craft Corp. of Nashua, N.H., which provides window hardware, including cranks and arms. Call 603-883-7747 or 800-488-7747. Q. Some painted furniture was dragged on a wood floor; it did not scratch it but left paint on the floor. How can I remove it? BRUCE MUTCHLER, Scituate  ----- A. Wet the paint with any kind of oil; oil will soften almost anything, in time. Wait 15 minutes, then push off the paint with a wood spatula or other wood edge. Or, scrub lightly with fine steel wool or a rough cloth. Wash off the oil with soap and water. Q. I have metal windows that I would like to replace because they are leaking air. It is a stone house, with old storms. The replacement windows I checked were $1,000 each. Those windows are way too expensive. What can I do? The walls sound hollow when I tap them on the inside. Could I have them insulated? A.C., Maynard  ----- A. If the walls sound hollow to a tap, they are probably studded with plaster or plasterboard finish on the inside. Yes, you can have insulation blown in. The metal windows may not be losing air, but being metal they are as cold on the inside in winter as they are on the outside, so the heat transfer is very high, possibly causing a self-generated draft. Now, $1,000 per window, even over-sized ones, is outrageous. Forget about them. For quality replacement windows (just the movable sash) at a good price ($225 to $300) per window, check with J.B. Sash &AMP; Door in Chelsea or J.C. Adams in Cambridge. Window-seekers in other regions should be able to find window people who are reasonable. If you cannot manage replacement windows, replace those old storms with Harvey's True Channel storms, which are as tight a storm window as you can get, for about $125 per window. Q. We painted our bathroom about a year ago and the walls always look wet. Very streaky. We used an eggshell latex paint. What did we do wrong? SKETCH, via Hotton's chat room  ----- A. Beats the heck out of the Handyman. If you put on only one coat, that might be the cause. The eggshell finish also may be a cause, because eggshell finish, neither flat nor shiny, provides enough gloss to make highlights on a slightly uneven surface. Try this: If you applied only one coat, sand it lightly to roughen it and reduce gloss, and apply a second, thin coat of a flat latex wall paint. If there are two coats on, sand the finish and apply a latex enamel undercoater, then two coats of a flat latex wall paint. The Handyman hopes this will work. Q. My attic floor is well insulated, and I have a ridge vent and some soffit vents. I am getting frost in winter on the nail points coming through the roof, and more frost appears at the low end of the roof between rafters. There are two soffit vents the size of a tissue box on each side of the house. The bathroom vents go through the attic and through the roof. What is wrong, and why am I getting that frost in those places? STEVE KREKORIAN, Andover  ----- A. There is not enough air circulating in the attic, so moisture builds up and condenses on cold areas such as the nail points and the lower part of the roof. Eventually, if the roof areas stay damp, black mold will grow. The solution is more venting; those soffit vents are totally inadequate. I'll bet the frost on the roof is between the soffit vents, not above them. Anyway, install a two- or three-inch continuous vent in the middle of the soffit, for the full length of the soffit and on both sides of the house down the middle of the entire soffit. This should do it. 
