ATTENTION EDITORS: 	All photos and graphics from the New York Times News Service are available at nytimages.com. Clients who have a photo account with the Wieck Database can use the same username and password to access the images. 	There is no charge for browsing. But if you would like more information on establishing an account to download art from nytimages.com at a special rate, please call us at (212) 556-4204. 	Our report has also moved to Newscom and via AP PhotoExpress. 	The following photos have been sent as part of the New York Times photo package for Thursday, May 2, 2002. 	(NYT79) HANCOCK, N.Y. -- May 2, 2002 -- NY-RUSSIANS-AVANTE-GARDE -- In Hancock, N.Y., Konstantin K. Kuzminsky, 62, is a poet, teacher, linguist, geologist, former dissident and, now, mentor to a coterie of aspiring Russian-American artists. Members of his circle founded the magazine Magazinnik, in March. Kuzminsky in his home in Hancock, N.Y. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) 	(NYT78) SCHIRMECK, France -- May 2, 2002 -- FRANCE-POLITICS-MOOD -- The town of Schirmeck, France, in the forest is a place of dark secrets - some new, some old and some underscoring the paradoxes that swirl around the strength here of Jean-Marie Le Pen, the right-wing insurgent who will challenge President Jacques Chirac in a runoff vote for the presidency of France on Sunday. Mayor Frederic Bierry of Schirmeck at a war memorial. He said people in the region were pessimists, partly because of their past. (Alan Cowell/The New York Times) 	(NYT77) NEW YORK -- May 2, 2002 -- WTC-SITE-3 -- Through the blur of unnoticed seasons, 1.6 million tons of material from the collapse of the World Trade Center have been dismantled and carted off to be examined again. That fire-spitting, hellish mound has been reduced to a few piles on a bedrock-bottomed pit. Now, heavy machines called grapplers pick away at what little remains of a structural colossus. A flatter, cleaner scene could be seen on Wednesday, from the top of the American Express building. (Richard Perry/The New York Times) 	(NYT76) MARIETTA, Ga. -- May 2, 2002 -- COMICS-SPIDERMAN-COX -- A tingly feeling is energizing the comics community right now, a ``spider-sense'' that a certain web-slinger can put things right. It's your friendly neighborhood ``Spider-Man,'' a $139 million blockbuster opening Friday, that may be the best chance yet for the humble comic book to regain its former stature. Brett Brooks holding an official Spider-Man movie toy in the Dr. No comic book shop in Marietta, Georgia this week. (Louie Favorite/Cox News Service) 	(NYT75) MARIETTA, Ga. -- May 2, 2002 -- COMICS-SPIDERMAN-COX-2 -- A tingly feeling is energizing the comics community right now, a ``spider-sense'' that a certain web-slinger can put things right. It's your friendly neighborhood ``Spider-Man,'' a $139 million blockbuster opening Friday, that may be the best chance yet for the humble comic book to regain its former stature. Some of the Spider-Man comic books for sale in the Dr. No comic book shop in Marietta, Georgia this week. (Louie Favorite/Cox News Service) 	(NYT74) JENIN REUGEE CAMP, West Bank -- MIDEAST-JENIN -- A day after Israeli opposition killed plans for a United Nations fact-finding mission into the Israeli Army's disputed attack on this refugee camp, a weeklong investigation by an American rights group found that Palestinian claims of hundreds of civilian deaths in the camp are exaggerated. But the report, the most authoritative to date, also contains conclusions beneficial to Palestinians in the international furor surrounding just what occurred in Jenin. Israeli soldiers inside the Jenin refugee camp on April 14, 2002, amid the destruction caused during heavy fighting in April. (Rina Castelnuovo/The New York Times) 	(NYT73) WASHINGTON -- May 2, 2002 -- PITT-SEC -- Harvey Pitt was insistent. The way companies account for the stock options they give to executives, he told a Senate panel in late March, had absolutely nothing to do with the collapse of Enron, whatever the conventional wisdom held. Two weeks later, Pitt, the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, delivered a speech at a law school in Chicago outlining a set of proposals to eliminate abuses associated with stock options. Pitt acknowledged that ``over the last few months, institutions and professions have been rocked by the taint of misconduct and greed.'' Pitt in his office in Washington on Wednesday. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) 	(NYT72) NEW YORK -- May 2, 2002 -- CHASE-OUTLOOK-2 -- J.P. Morgan Chase's ability to recover from a slew of recent losses rests largely in the hands of two men, who are both looking to restore tarnished reputations and perhaps eyeing the top job someday. Geoffrey Boisi, now the co-head of J.P. Morgan's investment bank, left Goldman, Sachs &AMP; Company more than a decade ago after executives say he lost out in a bid to lead that firm. David Coulter, who runs J.P. Morgan's consumer business, was chief executive of Bank of America until it merged with NationsBank. They are both undertaking critical jobs. Boisi in his Manhattan office in June 2000 when he headed the Beacon Group. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) 	(NYT71) NEW YORK -- May 2, 2002 -- CHASE-OUTLOOK -- J.P. Morgan Chase's ability to recover from a slew of recent losses rests largely in the hands of two men, who are both looking to restore tarnished reputations and perhaps eyeing the top job someday. Geoffrey Boisi, now the co-head of J.P. Morgan's investment bank, left Goldman, Sachs &AMP; Company more than a decade ago after executives say he lost out in a bid to lead that firm. David Coulter, who runs J.P. Morgan's consumer business, was chief executive of Bank of America until it merged with NationsBank. They are both undertaking critical jobs. Coulter at a J.P. Morgan Chase branch in Manhattan. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times) 	(NYT70) PARIS -- May 2, 2002 -- FRANCE-CHIRAC-5-- French President and conservative presidential candidate Jacques Chirac greets supporters as he arrives for his last campaign rally for the second round of the presidential elections in Villepinte, north of Paris, France, Thursday. Chirac will face far-right leader Jean Marie Le Pen in the May 5 runoff. (James Hill/The New York Times) MAGS OUT--NO SALES 	(NYT69) PARIS -- May 2, 2002 -- FRANCE-CHIRAC-4 -- Supporters of French President and conservative presidential candidate Jacques Chirac cheer him on during his last campaign rally for the second round of the presidential elections in Villepinte, north of Paris, France, Thursday. Chirac will face far-right leader Jean Marie Le Pen in the May 5 runoff. (James Hill/The New York Times) MAGS OUT--NO SALES 	(NYT68) NEW YORK -- May 2, 2002 -- NY-IN-PHOTOS-4-- Since last September, more photographs of the city have probably been circulating than at any time in its history. Countless new pictures, professional and amateur, have been shot; countless old pictures have been hauled out of storage for scrutiny. Three institutions -- the Jewish Museum, the Museum of the City of New York and the Metropolitan Museum of Art -- have big but very different shows of such material this spring. Saul Leiter's ``Barbershop, 75 cents,'' is part of the ``New York: Capital of Photography'' exhibit at the Jewish Museum. (Saul Leiter/Howard Greenberg Gallery/The New York Times)MAGS OUT--NO SALES ONLY FOR USE WITH STORY BY HOLLAND COTTER 	(NYT67) VILLEPINTE, France -- May 2, 2002 -- FRANCE-CHIRAC-3 -- Supporters of French President and conservative presidential candidate Jacques Chirac cheer him on during his last campaign rally for the second round of the presidential elections in Villepinte, north of Paris, France, Thursday. Chirac will face far-right leader Jean Marie Le Pen in the May 5 runoff. (James Hill/The New York Times) MAGS OUT--NO SALES 	(NYT66) VILLEPINTE, France -- May 2, 2002 -- FRANCE-CHIRAC-2 -- French President and conservative presidential candidate Jacques Chirac delivers a speech during his last campaign rally for the second round of the presidential elections in Villepinte, north of Paris, France, Thursday. Chirac will face far-right leader Jean Marie Le Pen in the May 5 runoff. (James Hill/The New York Times) MAGS OUT--NO SALES 	(NYT65) VILLEPINTE, France -- May 2, 2002 -- FRANCE-CHIRAC -- French President and conservative presidential candidate Jacques Chirac delivers a speech during his last campaign rally for the second round of the presidential elections in Villepinte, north of Paris, France, Thursday. Chirac will face far-right leader Jean Marie Le Pen in the May 5 runoff. (James Hill/The New York Times) MAGS OUT--NO SALES 	(NYT64) LAMAR, Colo. -- May 2, 2002 -- HIGH-PLAINS-DROUGHT-2 -- The soil is on the move again in the High Plains, drifting over a swath of the American midsection calcified by drought. For some, it is reviving memories of a time when the world seemed to blow away. There have been serious droughts in the High Plains before, some as fierce as the dry spells of the 1930s. But this year's drought is among the worst, and in some counties, particularly in the northern plains, it is the most devastating in more than a century. John Stulp, inspecting soil on his wheat farm in Lamar, Colo., says, ``It's drier around here than it has been for a hundred years.'' Stulp says he had seen only a half-inch of rain since August. (Kevin Moloney/The New York Times) LITE 	(NYT63) BIG SANDY, Mont. -- May 2, 2002 -- HIGH-PLAINS-DROUGHT -- The soil is on the move again in the High Plains, drifting over a swath of the American midsection calcified by drought. For some, it is reviving memories of a time when the world seemed to blow away. There have been serious droughts in the High Plains before, some as fierce as the dry spells of the 1930s. But this year's drought is among the worst, and in some counties, particularly in the northern plains, it is the most devastating in more than a century. The drought has left farmland near Big Sandy in north-central Montana, where an old farm implement sits in drifting topsoil, unsuitable for planting. (Liz Hahn/The New York Times) LITE 	(NYT62) NEW YORK -- May 2, 2002 -- WTC-SITE-2 -- Through the blur of unnoticed seasons, in an effort without parallel, 1.6 million tons of material from the collapse of the World Trade Center have been dismantled, examined and carted off to be examined again. That fire-spitting, hellish mound has been reduced, one truckload at a time, to a few piles on a bedrock-bottomed pit. Now, heavy machines called grapplers pick away at what little remains of a structural colossus. Workers sift through rubble at Ground Zero last week. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) 	(NYT61) NEW YORK -- May 2, 2002 -- WTC-SITE -- Through the blur of unnoticed seasons, in an effort without parallel, 1.6 million tons of material from the collapse of the World Trade Center have been dismantled, examined and carted off to be examined again. That fire-spitting, hellish mound has been reduced, one truckload at a time, to a few piles on a bedrock-bottomed pit. Now, heavy machines called grapplers pick away at what little remains of a structural colossus. In late April, John Vigiano, Sr. stands at a vantage point to observe the recovery effort at Ground Zero. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)LITE 	(NYT60) UNDATED -- May 2, 2002 -- KERRY-PROFILE-BOS-3 -- Sen. John Forbes Kerry, 58, is, in many respects, a made-to-order presidential candidate. He is smart. He has a solid legislative record. He commands a constellation of the powerful committee seats in the Senate and is also decorated Vietnam war hero. The one thing he is said to lack is charm, that ineffable elixir of modern-day presidential politics. Kerry at EarthFest Saturday at the Hatch Shell in Boston. (Suzanne Kreiter/The Boston Globe) 	(NYT59) BOSTON -- May 2, 2002 -- KERRY-PROFILE-BOS-2 -- Sen. John Forbes Kerry, 58, is, in many respects, a made-to-order presidential candidate. He is smart. He has a solid legislative record. He commands a constellation of the powerful committee seats in the Senate and is also decorated Vietnam war hero. The one thing he is said to lack is charm, that ineffable elixir of modern-day presidential politics. Kerry on his Harley-Davidson motorcycle on Beacon Hill in Boston. (Suzanne Kreiter/The Boston Globe) 	(NYT58) SPRINGFIELD, Mass. -- May 2, 2002 -- KERRY-PROFILE-BOS -- Sen. John Forbes Kerry, 58, is, in many respects, a made-to-order presidential candidate. He is smart. He has a solid legislative record. He commands a constellation of the powerful committee seats in the Senate and is also decorated Vietnam war hero. The one thing he is said to lack is charm, that ineffable elixir of modern-day presidential politics. Kerry talks to children Monday at the New North Citizens Council in Springfield, Mass. (Suzanne Kreiter/The Boston Globe) 	(NYT57) UNDATED -- May 2, 2002 -- RELUCTANT-LANDLORDS-2 -- Many baby boomers who bought, built or inherited second homes during the economy's expansion, are now faced with the choice of renting out -- or selling out -- their beloved getaways. From Memorial Day through Labor Day, many people will reluctantly hand over their keys to strangers -- and pray that their refuge is not damaged or destroyed. The owners of a home in Nantucket, Mass., prefer to rent discreetly, so friends don't know they've become landlords. (The New York Times) 	(NYT56) LAKE PLACID, N.Y. -- May 2, 2002 -- RELUCTANT-LANDLORDS -- Many baby boomers who bought, built or inherited second homes during the economy's expansion, are now faced with the choice of renting out -- or selling out -- their beloved getaways. From Memorial Day through Labor Day, many people will reluctantly hand over their keys to strangers -- and pray that their refuge is not damaged or destroyed. This year, outsiders will be enjoying the view of this home in Lake Placid, N.Y. (The New York Times) 	(NYT55) LITHONIA, Ga. -- May 2, 2002 -- LISA-LOPES-FUNERAL-7 -- The coffin of Lisa ``Left Eye'' Lopes, the colorful rapper of the R&AMP;B trio TLC, arriving at the New Birth Missionary Baptist Church in Lithonia, Ga., Thursday. Thousands of people packed the large suburban church for Lopes' funeral. She died in a car crash a week ago in Honduras.(Renee Hannans/Atlanta Journal-Constitution) 	(NYT54) LITHONIA, Ga. -- May 2, 2002 -- LISA-LOPES-FUNERAL-6 -- Grace Graham and her daughter, Jessica, 10, a big fan of Lopes, wait in line to enter the New Birth Missionary Baptist Church in Lithonia, Ga., for the funeral of Lisa Lopes, Thursday. Thousands of people packed the large suburban church for the funeral of Lisa ``Left Eye'' Lopes, the colorful rapper in the R&AMP;B trio TLC. She died in a car crash a week ago in Honduras. (Rich Addicks/Atlanta Journal-Constitution) 	(NYT53) LITHONIA, Ga. -- May 2, 2002 -- LISA-LOPES-FUNERAL-5 -- Two-year-old Talia Williams, left, held by Tarshia Williams, and two-year-old Shy-Mira Hampton, right, held by Brittany Outterbridge, sleep while waiting to enter the New Birth Missionary Baptist Church for the funeral of Lisa Lopes, Thursday in Lithonia, Ga. Williams and Outterbridge drove from Orangeburg, S.C. for the funeral. Thousands of people packed the large suburban church for the funeral of Lisa ``Left Eye'' Lopes, the colorful rapper in the R&AMP;B trio TLC. She died in a car crash a week ago in Honduras. (Rich Addicks/Atlanta Journal-Constitution) 	(NYT52) LITHONIA, Ga. -- May 2, 2002 -- LISA-LOPES-FUNERAL-4 -- A fan of singer Lisa Lopes wears a T-shirt with her picture on it as he joined thousands of other fans outside the New Birth Missionary Baptist Church where funeral services were held, Thursday. Thousands of people packed the large suburban church Thursday for the funeral of Lisa ``Left Eye'' Lopes, the colorful rapper in the R&AMP;B trio TLC. She died in a car crash a week ago in Honduras. (Rich Addicks/Atlanta Journal-Constitution) 	(NYT51) NEW YORK -- May 2, 2002 -- ANTIQUES-COLUMN -- The Flatiron Building was certainly not New York's first skyscraper, but it has outlived most of its contemporaries, and its distinctive wedge shape has helped ensure its special place in the cityscape ever since its opening in 1902. The New-York Historical Society is celebrating this landmark with ``Building on the Flatiron: The Centenary of a New York Icon, 1902-2002,'' until Aug. 31. Robert Bracklow captured the Flatiron Building's prow about 1903. (Bracklow Photograph Collection, New-York Historical Society/The New York Times) 	(NYT50) NEW YORK -- May 2, 2002 -- THEATER-NOTES -- Wednesday was the end of Tony eligibility for the 2001-02 season, concluding a year when Broadway swooned -- and rallied -- as never before. At the same time, it signified the beginning of what promises to be one of the most interesting Tony contests in several years. Stephen Tobolowsky in ``Morning's at Seven,'' at the Lyceum Theater in New York. The show opened late in the season to good notices. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times) 	(NYT49) LAKE TAHOE, Nev. -- May 2, 2002 -- Adv. for Sun., May 5 -- TRAVEL-TAHOE-THUNDERBIRD -- Thunderbird Lodge, a historic Lake Tahoe, Nev., estate, built by George Whittell Jr., an eccentric real estate investor who stayed there with his pet lion and elephant, opens for public tours this month. The lodge was built in the late 1930s and is surrounded by gardens and has views across the water to snow-capped peaks of the Sierra Nevada. (Thunderbird Lodge/The New York Times) 	(NYT48) UNDATED -- May 2, 2002 -- Adv. for Sun., May 5 -- TV-HISTORICAL-REENACTMENTS -- Historical re-creations have become commonplace in TV documentaries, but not universally accepted. The issue set off a heated panel discussion at the World Congress of History Producers last October and now ``Ulysses S. Grant'' an American Experience produiction on PBS beginning May 5 is prompting more debate about what has been called the practice of turning history into costume dramas. The cinematographer Terry Hopkins, right, and an assistant cameraman, Dick Williams, in Union uniform, during a re-enactment of the battle of Shiloh. (American Experience/The New York Times) 	(NYT47) UNDATED -- May 2, 2002 -- Adv. for Sun., May 5 -- TV-GELBART-2 -- Television writing is a profession that eats its young, which makes Larry Gelbart, not shown, an unusual exception. If ABC picks up his new family drama, ``The Corsairs,'' Gelbart, at 74, will be one of the oldest people writing and producing in prime time. The show, a family drama about a rich and powerful media mogul played by John Larroquette, right,comes 30 years after he developed ``MASH'' for television. An undated photo of Gelbart. (Bob D'Amico/ABC/The New York Times) 	(NYT46) UNDATED -- May 2, 2002 -- Adv. for Sun., May 5 -- TV-GELBART -- Television writing is a profession that eats its young, which makes Larry Gelbart, not shown, an unusual exception. If ABC picks up his new family drama, ``The Corsairs,'' Gelbart, at 74, will be one of the oldest people writing and producing in prime time. The show, a family drama about a rich and powerful media mogul played by John Larroquette, right,comes 30 years after he developed ``MASH'' for television. From left, Martin Landau, Robert Sean Leonard and Larroquette in the pilot of ``The Corsairs.'' (Saeed Adyani/ABC/The New York Times) 	(NYT45) UNDATED -- May 2, 2002 -- Adv. for Sun., May 5 -- FILM-CANNES -- This year's Cannes Film Festival, which opens on May 15 with Woody Allen's ``Hollywood Ending'' and ends on May 26 with Claude Lelouche's ``And Now ... Ladies and Gentlemen,'' looks to be one of the strongest line-ups in years, a deft balance of regions, styles and sensibilities. Timothy Spall and Kathryn Hunter in ``All Or Nothing,'' directed by Mike Leigh. It's his third film to compete at Cannes. (Simon Mein/United Artists Films/The New York Times) 	(NYT44) UNDATED -- May 2, 2002 -- Adv. for Sun., May 5 -- FILM-WOODY-ALLEN -- At some point in the 1970s, the intellectual, neurotic characters Woody Allen had portrayed in one film after another became a comic archetype. There's no escaping the suspicion that Allen has lacked the will and energy of late to flesh out his ideas, but ``Hollywood Ending'' closes with a sensationally witty punchline that lives up to the movie's title. Allen in his new film. (John Clifford/DreamWorks/The New York Times) 	(NYT43) UNDATED -- May 2, 2002 -- Adv. for Sun., May 5 -- FILM-UNFAITHFUL -- Adrian Lyne has the instincts of a commercial filmmaker. HIs previous films, ``Fatal Attraction'' and ``Indecent Proposal'' were huge box-office hits and his films stir controversy. His new film, ``Unfaithful'' is the story of a couple who are happily married when a chance encounter leads the wife to have an affair. Diane Lane, left, is an unfaithful Westchester wife and Richard Gere her vengeful husband in ``Unfaithful.'' (Barry Wetcher/20th Century Fox and Regency Enterprises/The New York Times) 	(NYT42) UNDATED -- May 2, 2002 -- Adv. for Sun., May 5 -- THEATER-NOBLE -- On the second night of Adrian Noble's production of ``Chitty Chitty Bang Bang,'' that comes with a $10 million price tag, an antique car's gadgetry refused to function, forcing the management to reimburse the 2,200-strong audience members and raising doubts about the show's reliability. Noble has just announced his resignation from his primary job, which is chief executive of the Royal Shakespeare Company, citing the pressures of the job. An undated photo of Noble. (Royal Shakespeare Company/The New York Times) 	(NYT41) CROTON, N.Y. -- May 2, 2002 -- Adv. for Sun., May 5 -- MUSIC-PERSON -- At the age of 67, with 100 recordings and thousands of club dates behind him, Houston Person has at last begun to reap the benefits of a career built and sustained among the black middle class. On May 7, Person opens a six-night stand at the Jazz Standard in Manhattan, the sort of front-rank venue that eluded him for many years. Person in Croton Falls, N.Y. in March. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) 	(NYT40) WASHINGTON -- May 2, 2002 -- Adv. for Sun., May 5 -- THEATER-SONDHEIM -- The Sondheim Celebration in Washington, which is the Kennedy Center's most extensive exploration ever of the work of a single artist, coincides with the Broadway revival of the 1987 Sondheim-James Lapine musical ``Into the Woods.'' Together, the revivals certify that over the last 30 years, the once humble musical comedy form has been dominated and transformed by Sondheim and his collaborators into something intellectually challenging and morally weighty. Stephen Sondheim at the Shakespeare Folger Library. 	(NYT39) NEW YORK -- May 2, 2002 -- MINI-IN-THE-CITY-3 -- The Mini fits into a continuum of adorable and stylistically iconic cars like the Miata and the New Beetle. BMW, which acquired the brand in 1994, has re-imagined the Mini with a wink and wiggle, plus two more feet of car. At four-and-a-half-feet wide, the Mini has many parking options. Pedestrians in the Greenwich Village, above, and SoHo, below, meet the Mini. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times) LITE 	(NYT38) NEW YORK -- May 2, 2002 -- MINI-IN-THE-CITY-2 -- The Mini fits into a continuum of adorable and stylistically iconic cars like the Miata and the New Beetle. BMW, which acquired the brand in 1994, has re-imagined the Mini with a wink and wiggle, plus two more feet of car. At four-and-a-half-feet wide, the Mini has many parking options. Pedestrians in SoHo meet the Mini. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times) 	(NYT37) NEW YORK -- May 2, 2002 -- MINI-IN-THE-CITY -- The Mini fits into a continuum of adorable and stylistically iconic cars like the Miata and the New Beetle. BMW, which acquired the brand in 1994, has re-imagined the Mini with a wink and wiggle, plus two more feet of car. In the West Village, the Mini, at almost 56 inches high, gets human attention but none from Sony, a Rhodesian Ridgeback -- whose owner is the architect Gustavo Bonevardi -- who measures 33 inches high when seated. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times) LITE 	(NYT36) WASHINGTON -- May 2, 2002 -- RIDGE-SECURITY-2 -- Sen. Orin Hatch, right, the ranking member on the Senate Judiciary Committee, with Tom Ridge, the director of the office of Homeland Security, during a briefing by Ridge of Senators, Thursday on Capitol Hill. Instead of becoming the leader of domestic security, Ridge has become a White House advisor with a shrinking mandate, forbidden by the president to testify before Congress and explain his strategy, overruled in White House councils and overshadowed by powerful cabinet members reluctant to give up their turf or their share of the limelight. (Susana Raab/The New York Times) MAGS OUT, NO SALES 	(NYT35) WASHINGTON -- May 2, 2002 -- BUSH-EUROPE -- President Bush with Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar of Spain, center, and Romano Prodi, of Italy, president of the European Commission, Thursday, at the White House. Bush met Thursday with a delegation led by the Aznar and Prodi, whose country holds the rotating European Union presidency, to discuss issues of joint concern including terrorism and the conflict in the Middle East. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 	(NYT34) WASHINGTON -- May 2, 2002 -- RIDGE-SECURITY -- Sen. Orin Hatch, center, the ranking member on the Senate Judiciary Committee, escorts Tom Ridge, right, the director of the office of Homeland Security towards a briefing of Senators, Thursday on Capitol Hill. Instead of becoming the leader of domestic security, Ridge has become a White House advisor with a shrinking mandate, forbidden by the president to testify before Congress and explain his strategy, overruled in White House councils and overshadowed by powerful cabinet members reluctant to give up their turf or their share of the limelight. (Susana Raab/The New York Times) MAGS OUT, NO SALES 	(NYT33) BETHLEHEM, West Bank -- May 2, 2002 -- MIDEAST-BETHLEHEM-5 -- An Israeli soldier holds a note with the words ``Please help'' and the name Father Razmig on it, after it was found outside the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem, Thursday. The note was weighted with a metal key lock and thrown outside. Israeli troops opened fire Thursday on three armed Palestinians emerging from the besieged Church of the Nativity, killing one, sending two staggering back into the shrine and drawing Palestinian fire. Later, they were then collected in ambulances with the help of negotiatiors. (Tyler Hicks/The New York Times) 	(NYT32) BETHLEHEM, West Bank -- May 2, 2002 -- MIDEAST-BETHLEHEM-4 -- Israeli soldiers tend to a Palestinian man who was shot Thursday inside the Church of the Nativity, as priests and monks pass by, before the injured man was loaded into an ambulance in Manger Square. Israeli troops opened fire Thursday on three armed Palestinians emerging from the besieged Church of the Nativity, killing one, sending two staggering back into the shrine and drawing Palestinian fire. Later, they were then collected in ambulances with the help of negotiatiors. (Tyler Hicks/The New York Times) 	(NYT31) BETHLEHEM, West Bank -- May 2, 2002 -- MIDEAST-BETHLEHEM-3 -- Priests carry the body of a man, who was killed inside the Church of the Nativity on Thursday, out the church door in Bethlehem. Israeli troops opened fire Thursday on three armed Palestinians emerging from the besieged Church of the Nativity, killing one, sending two staggering back into the shrine and drawing Palestinian fire. Later, they were then collected in ambulances with the help of negotiatiors. (Tyler Hicks/The New York Times) 	(NYT30) BETHLEHEM, West Bank -- May 2, 2002 -- MIDEAST-BETHLEHEM-2 -- A Palestinian man who was shot Thursday inside the Church of the Nativity cringes in pain as he is loaded into an ambulance by Israeli soldiers in Manger Square. Israeli troops opened fire Thursday on three armed Palestinians emerging from the besieged church, killing one, and sending two staggering back into the shrine. Later, they were then collected in ambulances with the help of negotiatiors. (Tyler Hicks/The New York Times) 	(NYT29) BETHLEHEM, West Bank -- May 2, 2002 -- MIDEAST-BETHLEHEM -- Israeli soldiers move foward in Manger Square near the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem, Thursday. Israeli troops opened fire Thursday on three armed Palestinians emerging from the besieged church, killing one, and sending two staggering back into the shrine. Later, they were then collected in ambulances with the help of negotiatiors. (Tyler Hicks/The New York Times) 	(NYT28) LA PLATA, Md. -- May 2, 2002 -- MD-TORNADO-3 -- The aftermath of Sunday's tornado that ripped through La Plata, Md., Thursday. With the tornado's toll at three dead and more than 400 homes and businesses damaged or destroyed on Sunday, Gov. Parris Glendening has asked President Bush to declare three counties federal disaster areas because of tornado damage. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) 	(NYT27) LA PLATA, Md. -- May 2, 2002 -- MD-TORNADO-2 -- The aftermath of Sunday's tornado that ripped through La Plata, Md., Thursday. With the tornado's toll at three dead and more than 400 homes and businesses damaged or destroyed on Sunday, Gov. Parris Glendening has asked President Bush to declare three counties federal disaster areas because of tornado damage. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) 	(NYT26) LA PLATA, Md. -- May 2, 2002 -- MD-TORNADO -- Buddy Norris, a retired developer in La Plata, Md., who worked decades to help change the old farm town into a nascent suburb, discusses recovery operations with Amish volunteers Thursday, after a tornado that ripped through the region on Sunday. With the tornado's toll at three dead and more than 400 homes and businesses damaged or destroyed, Gov. Parris Glendening has asked President Bush to declare three counties federal disaster areas because of tornado damage. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) 	(NYT25) NEW YORK -- May 2, 2002 -- NY-IN-PHOTOS-3 -- Since last September, more photographs of the city have probably been circulating than at any time in its history. Countless new pictures, professional and amateur, have been shot; countless old pictures have been hauled out of storage for scrutiny. Three institutions -- the Jewish Museum, the Museum of the City of New York and the Metropolitan Museum of Art -- have big but very different shows of such material this spring. ``Lebanon Restaurant,'' 1936 by Berenice Abbott. From the exhibition ``A Community of Many Worlds: Arab Americans in New York City'' at the Museum of the City of New York. (Museum of the City of New York/The New York Times) MAGS OUT--NO SALES ONLY FOR USE WITH STORY BY HOLLAND COTTER 	(NYT24) NEW YORK -- May 2, 2002 -- NY-IN-PHOTOS-2 -- Since last September, more photographs of the city have probably been circulating than at any time in its history. Countless new pictures, professional and amateur, have been shot; countless old pictures have been hauled out of storage for scrutiny. Three institutions -- the Jewish Museum, the Museum of the City of New York and the Metropolitan Museum of Art -- have big but very different shows of such material this spring. ``The Lower East Side'' 1900 by an anonymous photographer. From the exhibition ``New York: Capital of Photography'' at The Jewish Museum. (The Jewish Museum/The New York Times) MAGS OUT--NO SALES ONLY FOR USE WITH STORY BY HOLLAND COTTER 	(NYT23) NEW YORK -- May 2, 2002 -- NY-IN-PHOTOS -- Since last September, more photographs of the city have probably been circulating than at any time in its history. Countless new pictures, professional and amateur, have been shot; countless old pictures have been hauled out of storage for scrutiny. Three institutions -- the Jewish Museum, the Museum of the City of New York and the Metropolitan Museum of Art -- have big but very different shows of such material this spring. From the exhibition ``New York, New York: Photographs from the Collection'' at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, ``476 Broadway, New York'' 1870 by an Unknown Artist, American School. (Metropolitan Museum of Art/The New York Times) MAGS OUT--NO SALES ONLY FOR USE WITH STORY BY HOLLAND COTTER 	(NYT22) LITHONIA, Ga. -- May 2, 2002 -- LISA-LOPES-FUNERAL-3 -- Dekalb County police officer Darrell Kitchen keeps order as fans gathered outside the New Birth Missionary Baptist Church on Thursday for the funeral of Lisa Lopes. Thousands of people packed the large suburban church Thursday for the funeral of Lisa ``Left Eye'' Lopes, the colorful rapper in the R&AMP;B trio TLC. She died in a car crash a week ago in Honduras. (Rich Addicks/Atlanta Journal-Constitution) 	(NYT21) LITHONIA, Ga. -- May 2, 2002 -- LISA-LOPES-FUNERAL-2 -- Nicole Kern, who took a bus from New York to attend the funeral of Lisa Lopes, cries upon seeing the coffin arrive to the New Birth Missionary Baptist Church on Thursday. Thousands of people packed the large suburban church Thursday for the funeral of Lisa ``Left Eye'' Lopes, the colorful rapper in the R&AMP;B trio TLC. She died in a car crash a week ago in Honduras. (Renee Hannans/Atlanta Journal-Constitution) 	(NYT20) LITHONIA, Ga. -- May 2, 2002 -- LISA-LOPES-FUNERAL-1 -- Fans of Lisa Lopes outside the New Birth Missionary Baptist Church where funeral services were held, Thursday. Thousands of people packed the large suburban church Thursday for the funeral of Lisa ``Left Eye'' Lopes, the colorful rapper in the R&AMP;B trio TLC. She died in a car crash a week ago in Honduras. (Rich Addicks/Atlanta Journal-Constitution) 	(NYT19) NEW YORK -- May 2, 2002 -- DOG-MOVIE-2 -- Gayle Kirschenbaum and her dog Chelsea at Cabrini Hospice during a visit with John Riccobono in mid April. Kirschenbaum, a freelance television producer and Emmy-Award-winning documentary filmmaker, is turning her pet's life into a movie. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) 	(NYT18) NEW YORK -- May 2, 2002 -- DOG-MOVIE -- Gayle Kirschenbaum and Chelsea, a 13-pound black and white Shih Tzu that she calls her ``dog-ter,'' with the filmaker Albert Maysles at Cabrini Hospice, where Chelsea visits patients, on April 17, 2002. Kirschenbaum, a freelance television producer and Emmy-Award-winning documentary filmmaker, has the dangerous ability to foist her dog tales onto a wider audience. Yes, Kirschenbaum is turning her pet's life into a movie. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) 	(NYT17) ANYANG, China -- May 2, 2002 -- CHINA-ARCHEOLOGY-3-COX -- Royal chariots from the Shang Dynasty on display in Anyang in April. Buried deep beneath the wheat fields and factories of this fading industrial city are untold numbers of ancient relics - royal tombs, decorative bronze vessels, jade ornaments and human sacrificial pits. More than three millennia ago, it was known as Yinxu, the last capital of the Shang Dynasty. (Julie Chao/Cox News Service) 	(NYT16) ANYANG, China -- May 2, 2002 -- CHINA-ARCHEOLOGY-2 -- Workers rinse pieces of pottery excavated from archeological sites around Anyang in April. Buried deep beneath the wheat fields and factories of this fading industrial city are untold numbers of ancient relics - royal tombs, decorative bronze vessels, jade ornaments and human sacrificial pits. More than three millennia ago, it was known as Yinxu, the last capital of the Shang Dynasty. (Julie Chao/Cox News Service) 	(NYT15) ANYANG, China -- May 2, 2002 -- CHINA-ARCHEOLOGY-1-COX --Workers build concrete frames above ground marking where sacrificial pits have been found below ground in April. Buried deep beneath the wheat fields and factories of this fading industrial city are untold numbers of ancient relics - royal tombs, decorative bronze vessels, jade ornaments and human sacrificial pits. More than three millennia ago, it was known as Yinxu, the last capital of the Shang Dynasty. (Julie Chao/Cox News Service) 	(NYT14) RAMALLAH, West Bank -- May 2, 2002 -- MIDEAST-ARAFAT-10 -- Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat gestures to supporters as he leaves the offices of the Palestinian Legislative Council in Ramallah, Thursday. After more than a month of confinement at his compound, Arafat was able to move freely throughout the West Bank city after the Israeli army withdrew in the early hours of the morning. (Ruth Fremson/ The New York Times) 	(NYT13) RAMALLAH, West Bank -- May 2, 2002 -- MIDEAST-ARAFAT-9 -- A supporter reaches out to touch Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat, Thursday in Ramallah. After more than a month of confinement at his compound, Arafat was able to move freely throughout the West Bank city after the Israeli army withdrew in the early hours of the morning. (Ruth Fremson/ The New York Times) 	(NYT12) NEW YORK -- May 2, 2002 -- PRODUCERS-THEATER-REVIEW-2 --From left, Brad Oscar as Max Bialystock, Cady Huffman as Ulla, the Swedish secretary, and Steven Weber as John Smith in ``The Producers'' at The St. James Theater. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times) 	(NYT11) NEW YORK -- May 2, 2002 -- PRODUCERS-THEATER-REVIEW-1 -- Brad Oscar, left, as Max Bialystock and Steven Weber as John Smith in ``The Producers'' at The St. James Theater. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times) 	(NYT10) UNDATED -- May 2, 2002 -- SPIDERMAN-REVIEW-2 -- Tobey Maguire plays the comic book superhero in Sam Raimi's ``Spider-Man.'' (Zade Rosenthal/Columbia Pictures/The New York Times) 	(NYT9) UNDATED -- May 2, 2002 -- SPIDERMAN-REVIEW-1 -- Sweeping through the skyscraper canyons of New York, Tobey Maguire plays the comic book superhero in Sam Raimi's ``Spider-Man.'' (Zade Rosenthal/Columbia Pictures/The New York Times) 	(NYT8) RAMALLAH, West Bank -- May 2, 2002 -- MIDEAST-ARAFAT-8 -- Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat gestures victoriously from his car, foreground, as his motorcade makes its way through Ramallah, Thursday. After more than a month of confinement at his compound Arafat was able to move freely after the Israeli army withdrew from the city in the early hours of the morning. (Ruth Fremson/ The New York Times) 	(NYT7) RAMALLAH, West Bank -- May 2, 2002 -- MIDEAST-ARAFAT-7 -- Palestinian security officials survey the damage to Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat's compound in the West Bank city of Ramallah early Thursday. After more than a month of confinement at his compound Arafat was able to move freely after the Israeli army withdrew from the city in the early hours of the morning. (Ruth Fremson/ The New York Times) 	(NYT6) RAMALLAH, West Bank -- May 2, 2002 -- MIDEAST-ARAFAT-6 -- Palestian leader Yasser Arafat greets the crowd as he leaves his compound in the West Bank city of Ramallah, Thursday. After more than a month of confinement at his compound Arafat was able to move freely after the Israeli army withdrew from the city in the early hours of the morning. (Photo by Ruth Fremson/ The New York Times) 	(NYT5) RAMALLAH, West Bank -- May 2, 2002 -- MIDEAST-ARAFAT-5 -- A member of Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat's presidential guard carries his belongings across Arafat's damaged compound in the West Bank city of Ramallah, Thursday. Arafat emerged from his West Bank headquarters Thursday, after Israeli troops withdrew from his compound and released the Palestinian leader from months of confinement. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times) 	(NYT4) RAMALLAH, West Bank -- May 2, 2002 -- MIDEAST-ARAFAT-4 -- Palestinian security officials greet each inside Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat's compound in the West Bank city of Ramallah on Thursday. A jubilant Arafat emerged from his West Bank headquarters Thursday, after Israeli troops withdrew from his compound and released the Palestinian leader from months of confinement. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times) 	(NYT3) RAMALLAH, West Bank -- May 2, 2002 -- MIDEAST-ARAFAT-3 -- Palestian leader Yasser Arafat greets the crowd as he leaves his compound in the West Bank city of Ramallah, Thursday. After more than a month of confinement at his compound Arafat was able to move freely after the Israeli army withdrew from the city in the early hours of the morning. (Photo by Ruth Fremson/ The New York Times) 	(NYT2) RAMALLAH, West Bank -- May 2, 2002 -- MIDEAST-ARAFAT-2 -- Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat gestures towards damage inside the Palestinian Legislative Council building in the West Bank city of Ramallah, Thursday. After more than a month of confinement at his compound. Arafat was able to move about freely throughout Ramallah after the Israeli army withdrew from the city in the early hours of the morning. (Ruth Fremson/ The New York Times) 	(NYT1) RAMALLAH, West Bank -- May 2, 2002 -- MIDEAST-ARAFAT -- Palestian leader Yasser Arafat gives a waiting crowd the victory sign as he leaves the Education Ministry building in the West Bank city of Ramallah, Thursday. After more than a month of confinement at his compound Arafat was able to move freely after the Israeli army withdrew from the city in the early hours of the morning. Arafat took a tour of the city, visiting various sites that had been damaged during the Israeli incursion. (Photo by Ruth Fremson/ The New York Times) 	The New York Times News Service 
