A pitched, if brief, battle broke out on Wednesday on Capitol Hill and at the Pentagon after lawmakers were informed that Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld had decided to kill an $11 billion program to build a artillery system known as the Crusader. Senior Defense Department officials telephoned crucial congressional leaders to tell them of the decision, angering some lawmakers and Army officials who declared that the weapon was vital to military needs. Both sides say that the fight is about more than one weapons system and that it is a pivotal moment in Rumsfeld's effort to exert control over the individual armed services by shaping their arms purchases. Each side says its approach would transform the military to prepare for future threats, and the fight over specific weapons is a clash of visions over how best to transform the way the Pentagon prepares for combat and fights wars. Three of the Crusader system's boosters, Sens. Don Nickles and James Inhofe, and Rep. J.C. Watts Jr., all Republicans of Oklahoma, responded to the Rumsfeld decision with strong support for the program. Inhofe pledged to ``work through the authorization and appropriations process to ensure that it remains fully funded.'' The weapon would be assembled in Oklahoma, and many would be based at Fort Sill, Okla. By Wednesday night, the Army received a promise that the Crusader, an automated howitzer, remained in Rumsfeld's ``Defense Planning Guidance'' for drafting the 2004 budget, as it had been until the jousting on Wednesday, Pentagon and military officials said, although it remains in jeopardy. The entire Crusader program will now be subjected to a review to determine its fate, officials said. But until Rumsfeld signs the classified planning document, the strict criteria for the study _ and, therefore, Crusader's chances for survival _ remain subject to change. A senior Defense Department official said the Army had been told to return with a plan to end the Crusader program and to use the money for other technologies that would accelerate the next generation of weapons. ``This decision is all but final,'' a senior department official said tonight. ``It is a serious study process, and we want to give the Army a chance to make its arguments.'' Department officials said that now, with an important planning document about to be completed, Rumsfeld had another opportunity to make his mark on the Pentagon. To do so, some have said, he has to show firmly that at least one expensive weapon will be canceled. Supporters of the Crusader argue that the system provides three times the firepower of the current Paladin artillery system and can do it farther and faster but with one-half the airlift requirement. In addition, they say, the Army needs and deserves dedicated artillery firepower that is available around the clock and in all weather. ``Here's a program that's on schedule, on budget and performing to requirements,'' said Doug Coffey, a spokesman for the manufacturer, the United Defense unit of the Carlyle Group. ``That's a big reason Congress is behind it.'' Opponents of the Crusader argue that on the modern battlefield its job can better be performed by cruise missiles, precision-guided bombs from aircraft or artillery fire from flying gunships like the AC-130. Some argue that the Crusader's budget would be better spent on a new satellite-guided artillery shell, as well as a precision multiple-launch rocket system. Money could also be used to accelerate another Army program, the Future Combat System, which will use communications systems to link manned and unmanned vehicles in the air and on the ground but which exists today only in the imagination of weapons designers. In other budget matters on Capitol Hill, the House Armed Services Com- mittee approved legislation on Wednesday L evening that would exempt the De- fense Department from major envi- ronmental regulations, setting up what is expected to be a fierce battle on the House floor. 
