Tonight in San Antonio is one such odd egg. What comes out of this item could range from Broadway musicals to albino buffaloes. A good basketball game between the Seattle Sonics and San Antonio Spurs is also possible, but unlikely. There hasn't been one yet in this best-of-five series, though that point does help made the argument that one is due. Still, not knowing the identity of all participants, nor their states of physical and mental health, makes forecasting Game 5 in this long-running extravaganza -- reports here say that when this series began, George Karl was a skinny reserve player for the Spurs -- much like grabbing fog. Normally when a playoff series reaches the climax moment, trends and patterns are everywhere, the term ``adjustments'' will be worn threadbare, and many journalistic devices will have been deployed to determine who has the momentum, where the pressure resides, and whose backs are against what walls. In this case, the series is in jagged pieces, and the assembly manual is useless. Much of the outcome tonight is said to rest upon the availability and readiness of Tim Duncan, who missed the mess of Game 4 following the death of his father. The conventional wisdom is that if he plays anywhere close to his all-world form, the Spurs should win easily at home, where the Alamodome crowd figures to salute the noble warrior at his every move. But that's a corpulent if, given his personal travail, as well as the intensity of a do-or-die game for two teams who Wednesday expressed aggravation after having been in one other's company for a longer period than some spent in college. As Vin Baker put it so eloquently in the locker room following the Sonics' cranky 91-79 win, ``I think their tactics are going to look like a Swedish massage compared to what's going to happen in Game 5.'' It thus would appear that all the basketball niceties about zone traps, pick-and-rolls and weakside help will be lost in a hail of elbows thrown flagrantly. But no -- contrary to Baker's sentiment, belligerent games rarely follow each other in the playoffs, because refs tighten down following mayhem in the previous game. As far as Duncan's return, consider that while the Spurs lost badly in his absence, they also lost Game 2 with him -- at home. And the Sonics beat the Spurs twice in the regular season, with both Duncan and David Robinson. So neither the hostilities of Game 4 nor the expected return of Duncan are reliable barometers. Nor is it helpful to try to chart the mental preparedness of the Sonics, who have been all over the psychology charts in this series, a Sybil in baggy shorts. But that didn't stop Desmond Mason from trying. ``In Game 1, a lot of us younger guys weren't ready for the situation, and obviously we got spanked,'' said the Sonics forward. ``We came back in Game 2 ready and made the adjustments. The same thing happened here (from Game 3 to Game 4). ``We know what it feels like to play down in San Antonio, so I think we'll come out and be focused and play. We can win.'' Well, sure, why not? Mason is entitled to a guess as much as anyone. What is he going to say: ``We're walking into a buzzsaw''? No. Especially considering the Game 4 play of Vladimir Radmanovic, the latest X factor in a series with more X's than a porn-video box. Vladdy Raddy scored 23 of the most unexpected points in this series since Spurs kiddy guard Tony Parker lit up Gary Payton in Game 3. Having missed four previous practices with a chronically injured big toe, he stepped into the starting lineup for injured Rashard Lewis and hit five consecutive three-pointers. Where did that come from? The Sonics had seen glimpses throughout the season, but his fellow first-round European draft pick, Parker, was making the Sonics look a bit foolish for overlooking him with the 12th pick that they spent on Radmanovic. Suddenly, everyone is noticing that Radmanovic, despite only 16 previous starts in his 65-game NBA career, is 6-foot-10, only 21 and has a big stroke, as well as a taste for pressure. But can he do it two games in a row? Who knows? That question can be fairly asked about nearly every player in this series. The one guy who has been steady is erstwhile Sonics sharpshooter Brent Barry, who couldn't get any lower if he were a legless Corgi. He has been tucked into the pocket of Spurs defender Bruce Bowen so deeply, he is covered in lint. That can't last forever. Can it? As far as the Spurs, while loss of Duncan and Robinson are demonstrably acute, what about a continued absence of Danny Ferry? Long an obscure role player, the 6-10 forward is nevertheless a legit threat beyond the arc -- no one in the series had more treys (four) entering Game 4 -- who screws up double-teams on Duncan because Ferry can't be left alone. Other playoff series have been lost for lesser reasons. By the way, has anyone seen Steve Smith? Tall guy. Good shooter. Ten-year NBA vet. Was last seen starring in the Spurs backcourt a couple of games ago, and is now on milk cartons nationwide. Then there is the Payton vs. Parker duel at point guard, which stands at 2-2, just like the series. The smart money says in a big game, bet the vet. But smart money is having nothing to do with this series, not when the underdog played perhaps its best game of the season (Game 2), yet was sandwiched by two blowouts. And the blowout winner offered this following Game 4: ``After the first half, we just decided that we were gonna fight,'' Parker said. ``They weren't gonna beat us by 40.'' No, the smart money is sitting out this one, preferring to see whether show tunes or stampedes emerge. Or maybe even the unlikely event of a good basketball game. 
