Adding further turns to a tangled tale, a French court acknowledged a claim Thursday by Vivendi Universal that a wireless electronic voting system used at its shareholder meeting last week had malfunctioned, and ordered the company to convene a new meeting as quickly as possible. The decision was a welcome, if modest, victory for Vivendi's luckless chief executive, Jean-Marie Messier. But the announcement came after the close of the Paris stock market, where Vivendi shares fell again Thursday, down 4.6 percent. Vivendi, Europe's biggest media conglomerate, said on Sunday that hackers had tampered with the voting system at its rough-and-tumble shareholder meeting on April 24, where Messier was booed and heckled. It said it would petition a court to allow it to call a new meeting. A Vivendi spokesman said late Thursday that no date had been set for the new meeting. Minority shareholders attacked the move, accusing Messier of seeking to overturn the rejection by shareholders of two management resolutions he had favored. One was a proposal to set aside 5 percent of the company's shares for stock options to management, and the other a plan to raise $2.7 billion by issuing new shares. But on Thursday the court accepted Vivendi's claim of ``malfunctioning in the counting of votes.'' (BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) The court said the purpose of a new meeting was to ``put in order the vote of resolutions rejected on April 24, whose result could have been affected by the malfunctioning.'' It said participants at the meeting could also vote to confirm resolutions approved last week. In the meantime, it allowed Vivendi to go ahead with its annual dividend payment, also approved then. (END OPTIONAL TRIM) The court's decision casts light on differences in shareholder practices between the United States and Europe, including some that could in the end prove a further embarrassment for Messier. In the United States, usually few decisions are put to shareholders, limited at times to confirmation of directors and the annual audit. But French holders more often face a larger number of resolutions. At Vivendi's recent meeting, for instance, 19 resolutions were up for vote. ``In France, shareholders are given more rights,'' said Stephen M. Davis, the president of Davis Global Advisers, a corporate governance consultancy in Boston. ``The stakes are higher, but shareholders have a lot to say.'' Moreover, American shareholders often cast their votes by mail or the Internet. Many of their French counterparts _ often lured by lavish free buffets, wine and Champagne _ prefer to show up, and do so. At the meeting last week, which was attended by more than 5,000 shareholders, some 4,000 hand-held devices resembling TV remote controls were distributed. They enabled shareholders to vote by pressing buttons for yes, no or abstention. According to people who know how such devices work, the relative weight of the vote, depending on the number of shares held by each shareholder, would have been programmed in beforehand. Likewise, proxy votes would have been entered beforehand into the system's computer to be tallied with other votes to yield a final result. Michel Fernier, the president of Inter Congres, a Paris company that supplies such systems, said that almost all the French CAC 40 _ the top blue-chip stocks on the Paris market, including industrial companies like the Alcatel electronics group and financial service providers like Societe Generale _ had adopted use of the hand-held devices. And most proponents of good corporate governance like them. Corporations take great pains to prevent tampering, said Pat Moody, international sales manager at the Fleetwood Group in Holland, Mich., a leading maker of portable audience response systems. ``You're in a delicate situation, maintaining identity and a degree of integrity,'' Moody said. Industry experts said that the system Vivendi used would most likely have employed a radio wave often used for remote-control car door openers to transmit the vote to a central computer. Hence the statement by Vivendi last weekend in which it said that it suspected ``fraudulent manipulation'' by a ``small group lightly equipped with a transmitter-receiver and knowledgeable in detail of the procedures and technical protocols'' of the voting system. That suspicion implied sabotage by insiders. Industry experts said it was possible to disturb the radio signal, but probably not possible to alter the result of a vote without inside collaboration. (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.) In the ruling Thursday, the court granted Vivendi's request for an expert investigation ``to determine the possibility and existence of piracy.'' It was potentially embarrassing news for Vivendi, however, first published by the ZDNet France Web site, that the company supplying the voting system was not an internationally recognized player in the field, but rather a local startup called MMA. MMA, it turned out, is 40 percent owned by BNP Paribas, an influential Vivendi shareholder. A BNP director also sits on the Vivendi board, and BNP supported the two defeated resolutions. Efforts to find an MMA spokesmen on Thursday were fruitless. 
