AIDS ACTIVISTS EMBRACE THEIR NEW ALLY, SEN. JESSE HELMS (For use by New York Times News Service clients.) By JUDY HOLLAND c.2002 Hearst Newspapers WASHINGTON _ Gays, lesbians and AIDS activists who once viewed Sen. Jesse Helms as their bitter foe are now welcoming him as a key ally in his final months in the Senate. The senior senator from North Carolina, a conservative Republican with a long record of berating homosexuals and blocking federal AIDS funding, has become their friend because he has joined their drive for more federal dollars to fight the disease in Africa. Helms, who retires this year and recently had surgery to replace a heart valve, has indicated he wants his swan song after 30 years in the Senate to be that he helped stop the transmission of AIDS from mother to child in Africa. Thanks largely to Helms, Congress may soon approve an historic boost in federal funding to fight AIDS overseas from $300 million in 2002 to $500 million in 2003. Legislation being drafted by Helms and Sen. Bill Frist, R-Tenn., would authorize the funds to pay for clinical care and drugs for overseas AIDS sufferers, as long as a matching amount is raised from private donations. Much of the funding would be targeted for Africa. Despite his change of heart on money for Africa, Helms still opposes any domestic funding for research, care, treatment or prevention programs for HIV-AIDS in the United States. Helms blames ``the homosexual lifestyle'' for spreading the disease in this country. Over the past 20 years, Helms led Senate efforts to slash or kill funding for AIDS programs, foreign and domestic. In 1993, he was one of three senators to vote against the Ryan White Care Act, which provides treatment for Americans with AIDS. Helms also has regularly infuriated the homosexual community by giving passionate speeches on the Senate floor, denouncing HIV as the result of ``deliberate, disgusting, revolting conduct.'' But then last February, Helms confessed at an international AIDS conference in Washington that he was ``ashamed'' of his former stonewalling on global spending for HIV-AIDs. ``I have been too lax, too long in doing something really significant about AIDS,'' he told the conference. He followed up with a March op-ed article in the Washington Post where he explained his change of heart. ``In the end our conscience is answerable to God,'' he wrote. ``Perhaps, in my 81st year, I am too mindful of soon meeting Him.'' A deeply religious man, Helms credits his dramatic turnaround to the rock star Bono and to Franklin Graham, son of evangelist Billy Graham. Helms has said Bono quoted scriptures to him and persuaded him that it was his Christian duty to help people with AIDS in Africa. In sub-Saharan Africa, one in four adults is infected with HIV and 11 million children have been orphaned, according to the World Health Organization. David Harvey of the AIDS Alliance for Children, Youth and Families, a national nonprofit group representing 500 HIV clinics in the United States, says Helms was poised to go down in history as the worst foe of the AIDS community. Now Harvey refers to Helms' efforts as ``wonderful.'' ``His shift in the global arena is very significant and very important,'' Harvey said. ``This is a huge step forward.'' Winnie Stachelberg, political director of the Human Rights Campaign, a national gay and lesbian rights group, recalls Helms was ``one of the most virulently anti-HIV, anti-gay senators out there.'' ``He filed amendment after amendment that made clear his animosity toward people with HIV,'' she said. Now Stachelberg welcomes Helms' help and says his reversal is ``clearly a good sign.'' ``HIV and AIDS epidemic is far too deadly and of such vast proportions that anyone who is offering help should join the effort to combat the disease,'' she said. Even politicians who never disguised their contempt for this conservative firebrand now speak nicely. Rep. Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., a leader on AIDS issues and an outspoken advocate for gays and lesbians, applauds Helms, saying she believes ``his commitment is real.'' ``It's great he's on board now,'' Pelosi said. Rep. Jim McDermott, D-Wash., who once worked as a psychiatrist in Zaire and founded the Congressional Task Force on International-HIV-AIDS in 1990, said Helms' work to drum up funding for Africa is prompting other conservative lawmakers to join the war on AIDS. ``People believe if Helms can change, there must be a real problem,'' McDermott said. ``They are all trying to match Helms.'' Rep. Barney Frank, D-Mass., one of Helms' strongest critics, says the senator is still homophobic and ``limited in his understanding'' because he seems to believe that AIDs ``is a heterosexual disease overseas and a homosexual and drug-related one in America.'' But even Frank concedes that Helms has redeemed himself a notch. ``He was terribly wrong before, now he's not as wrong as he used to be to be,'' Frank said. (STORY CAN END HERE _ OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.) Sen. Richard J. Durbin, D-Ill., a frequent foe of Helms, praised him for being candid about his change of heart. Durbin predicted senators may boost Africa AIDS funding more than they would have as a sort of good-bye gift to Helms to memorialize his 30 years here. ``It's rare for a politician to admit publicly he was wrong,'' Durbin said. Frist, who began two years ago trying to win Helm's support to combat AIDS in Africa, says Helms' help is key. ``All of his colleagues will look at the fact that Jesse has stated that global HIV-AIDs is a challenge to humanity and is destroying a continent,'' Frist said. Kate Carr, president and CEO of the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation, a group that focuses on research, programs for children with AIDS and other life-threatening diseases, says she prefers not to think about the Helms of the past. ``His vision for the future is one that we applaud,'' Carr said. His proposal is making everyone sit up and pay attention in Washington and around the world.'' Carr says Helm's legacy will be that he helped ``bring about a vision and a hopefulness that one day we will treat infected people all over the world'' regardless of where they live, how wealthy they are or even what their sexual orientation is.'' 
