Just mention the words Krispy Kreme, and most people know what you're talking about. Images of round doughnuts, warmed until the glaze oozes into a sugary-sweet mess is enough to make the mouth water. With each passing day, the demand for these fried dough cakes seems to be getting higher and higher. With no local Krispy Kreme store, Waco residents have been known to drive 30 minutes or more for their fix. The doughnuts are used for local fund-raisers, office parties, birthdays and wedding receptions. Which begs the question: What makes these doughnuts so good? ``Doughnuts offer the two things that the human race will always want: fat and sugar,'' said David Strutton, chair of the marketing and logistics department at the University of North Texas in Denton. ``People will always crave (doughnuts) and never be able to get enough of them. Krispy Kreme sells the products people want.'' Krispy Kreme started in 1937, with small franchises scattered throughout the Southeast. In the 1960s, the company expanded its roots north and west of its home territory. In 2000, the company went public with its stock, helping to establish itself as a major player in the doughnut world. Today, the company produces more than five million doughnuts per day and makes more than two billion per year. Krispy Kremes are made from a secret recipe developed by company founder Vernon Rudolph and a New Orleans chef. Ingredients include eggs, milk, butter, yogurt and wheat, all fried in vegetable oil. The technique of mixing and preparing the dough for Krispy Kreme doughnuts is secret, according to the company, but all cooking is done in front of customers. The company's production facility makes them stand apart from the rest, said Richard Easley, a marketing professor at Baylor University. ``I think Krispy Kreme definitely owns that niche in the market,'' he said. ``They say the doughnuts come hot and fresh, and they deliver.'' An automated machine runs the doughnuts along a conveyer belt. A large sprayer douses one side with glaze, then a bar flips them and they're sprayed with glaze on the other side. They're then baked, and wooden rods pull them off once they're done. Besides showing customers the baking process, the company has extended itself into fund-raising. In Waco, organizations swarm area parking lots with boxes of Krispy Kremes, raising money for all sorts of events and charities. The Rountree Rockets, a Little League baseball team, recently sold the doughnuts to raise funds for the team. The group had orders for 260 boxes of Krispy Kreme doughnuts within two days. When Waco residents came to pick up their doughnuts four days later, Doug Anderson, a coach of the Rountree Rockets, said he sold another 70 boxes. ``I think the fact that you can't get them in Waco really helps the fund-raisers,'' said Anderson. ``If Waco had a Krispy Kreme store, I think it would do really well. But it would hurt the fund-raising.'' The fact that the product is harder to get makes it more attractive, marketing experts say. ``If people can't find a product locally that usually means they are going to place more value on the product and want it more,'' Easley said. ``Krispy Kreme definitely has a cult following, which is something other doughnut makers can't say.'' Christina Minor writes for the Waco Tribune-Herald. E-mail: cminor(at)wacotrib.com Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
