By JONATHAN CURIEL, ILENE LELCHUK and RYAN KIM c.2002 SAN FRANCISCO CHRONICLE SAN FRANCISCO _ He is not yet the president of China, but Hu Jintao is being treated like it everywhere he goes, and that means he is the subject of awe and enmity, which happened on Thursday in San Francisco, where adoring crowds _ and protesters _ greeted Hu's high-level entourage. Arriving from Washington where he had met with President Bush, Vice President Dick Cheney and other administration figures, Hu stepped off his plane at San Francisco International Airport and was welcomed by hundreds of flag-waving supporters, some of whom _ citing Hu's youthful exuberance and political promise _ compared him to John F. Kennedy. ``Hu symbolizes a new generation for China,'' said Henry Wei, head of the Northern California chapter of Chinese for Peaceful Unification, who was among those who took the day off to greet Hu at the airport. ``His appearance, his political experience give us a new, hopeful feeling. He is different from the old guard.'' Hu, expected to succeed Chinese President Jiang Zemin next year, is in the Bay Area for little more than 24 hours. He chose to stop over from Washington because of the large Chinese community here, the presence of Silicon Valley (Hu is scheduled to visit Intel Corp. Friday morning) and to connect with Willie Brown, who has visited China three times as San Francisco's mayor. When Hu flies back to China this afternoon, he will take with him memories of the dinner Brown hosted for him Thursday night at the Hilton Hotel near Union Square. But it's likely that he paid little attention to the demonstrations that were organized to protest China's annexation of Tibet, its crackdown on the Falun Gong movement and its claims over Taiwan. Hu didn't mention the protests, Taiwan or Tibet in his brief speech at the Hilton Hotel. Instead, Hu praised Bush and the potential for improved U.S.-China relations. ``China-U.S. relations are full of vigor and vitality,'' Hu said. ``Over the past two days, Bush (and I) have reached a broad consensus. Both sides agreed to push for development of our relations. I'm more confident in the prospect of our relations.'' Thursday night outside the hotel, about 1,000 pro-China supporters greeted the Chinese vice president. On an opposite corner, more than 200 protesters met Hu with chants of, ``Hu Jintao, you're not welcome.'' Thursday afternoon, about 60 Falun Gong supporters and advocates for an independent Tibet lined the sidewalk across from the Chinese Consulate in San Francisco. Advocates for a free Tibet blame Hu for jailing hundreds of political opponents in Tibet between 1988 and 1992, when he was Communist Party chief for Tibet. It's clear Hu is trying to avoid controversy before his ascension to the top position in China's government. On Wednesday in Washington, he refused to accept four letters that Rep. Nancy Pelosi, D-San Francisco, tried to hand him seeking action on alleged human rights abuses in China. Hu, 59, is expected to be named Communist Party secretary this year and president next spring. Hu's supporters say his personality and prominence will emerge more fully in the next year. They say his weeklong visit to the United States has given Americans a necessary first glimpse of him _ a glimpse that Europeans already had (Hu toured Europe last year) and that every person in China has had since 1998, when he was elected China's vice president. That glimpse made some protesters nervous. ``Hu claims Taiwan is part of China, but it's an independent, sovereign nation,'' said James Tu, president of the Northern California Formosan Federation. ``China needs to respect the global values of democracy, freedom and human rights.'' At the mayor's reception, San Francisco Supervisor Leland Yee, the city's only Chinese American supervisor, said he understood the sentiments of Thursday's protesters but he said it was important to engage Hu and initiate a dialogue with him. ``The vice premier didn't say to San Francisco, `Clean up your homeless problem before I come,' '' said Yee. ``He didn't put that condition on us and we shouldn't put that on him.'' 
