When a successful woman looks over her shoulder, she always sees a shadow. There is forever someone willing to work harder, stay longer or stand a little closer to the flame. But the view over one shoulder is only the half of it. Over the other, love tugs as persuasively as ambition. And so goes the journey, pulling the weight of the two and stopping at each crossroad to make a choice one way or the other. ``I want you in every meeting where major decisions are made,'' George W. Bush told Karen Hughes last year soon after she became counselor to the president and moved into an office in the West Wing. Seductive words, those. They assured her role as the highest ranking female aide to a modern president and made her a powerful insider with the authority to shape image and policy in the Bush White House. Hughes is said to be one of the few such advisers who can _ and will _ tell the president he is wrong. Fellow aides say Bush frequently asks ``What does Karen think?'' Not many women get that close inside the circle. Yet there is another Karen Hughes, the one that is a wife and a mother and a Presbyterian elder. And that Karen Hughes is going back to Texas. With her family homesick, and her 15-year-old son about to enter high school, it became more important, she said, to give him roots and ``a place to come home to.'' Hughes will continue to advise Bush long-distance from Austin, but not on the government payroll. The cynical view would be to say that motherhood is just a cover, and that Hughes, who has been with Bush eight years, is positioning herself to direct his re-election campaign. Yet her explanation of her decision has a certain ring. She misses soccer games, and watching the friends of her son grow up. She misses her church. It hurts her to see her teen-ager less than happy with his life. Here is a woman described as the most influential person in the president's political life. And over that, she ostensibly has chosen love, and roots, and a more ordinary life. This would be the time to point out that Hughes has been the force behind the carefully controlled image of the Bush White House. Her job, in part, has been throttling the flow of information to the public, making this one of the most secretive administrations in memory. There is little to admire about that. Consider as well that most women don't have the option she exercised. Honoring family means they have to do what they have to do to pay the bills. Hughes, meanwhile, has been part of an administration responsible for shutting down the White House office that worked to broaden horizons for women. Still, if we take Hughes at her word about her reason for leaving Washington, it suggests that women have not only come a long way, but may have arrived at a welcome juncture. Women who are successful have often worked harder and longer to gain the ground they hold, and made unforgiving choices. Given that, it takes a certain measure of courage and confidence to look away from the flame. It is liberating, to a degree, to watch that happen in a high-profile way, and with relative comfort. Yet one choice does not fit all. It never has. Hughes' decision to honor family over ambition gives each of us _ men and women alike _ something to think about as we glance over our shoulders. But it does not set the standard, or make the choices any easier when you're standing at the crossroad. Mary Schulken is senior associate editor and editorial page editor for The Daily Reflector in Greenville, N.C. E-mail : mschulken(at)coxnews.com Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
