The Mavericks rolled through the regular season as the NBA's ultimate road warriors, compiling the best away record in the league and franchise history _ 27-14. Sacramento's Arco Arena, site of the first two games of the Mavericks-Kings Western Conference semifinal series, proved the most difficult court for visitors this season, with the Kings fashioning a 36-5 mark. OK, it isn't exactly irresistible force vs. immovable object, but if the Mavericks expect to reserve a date in the conference finals, they need to work some serious road magic on the West Coast. Game 1 of the best-of-seven series is Saturday at 5:30 p.m.; Game 2 is Monday night at 8. ``They have the best homecourt advantage,'' Mavericks coach Don Nelson of the Kings. ``It's really a big advantage for them to play the first two at their place, because they just don't lose many games there. If they don't have the best crowd in the league, it's second to ours.'' Nelson's biased fan view aside, he's right: The Kings don't lose many at home. But two of their losses came with the Mavericks in town. The Mavs were the only team to win twice in Arco, where the Kings averaged better than 107 points per game. Led by Dirk Nowitzki's 32 points and Steve Nash's 31, the Mavericks claimed a 120-114 overtime victory in Sacramento on Dec. 2. Without Nowitzki in the second and last meeting at Arco, Nick Van Exel had 27 points in a 113-110 victory April 14. To be fair, the Kings' rotation was tweaked some in the game three weeks ago, which fell during the last week of the regular season and after Sacramento locked down the top seed throughout the playoffs. Nonetheless, the Mavs don't view their road success in Arco, or anywhere else, as a fluke. ``We're confident in any arena in the league, because we've won in any and every arena,'' guard Michael Finley said. ``We just have to go in there and play our game the way that we played during the regular season, even though the stakes are a little bit harder, the intensity a little bit harder. It's a winnable game.'' Unlike the first round against Minnesota, the Mavericks have to win at least once on the road in this series to advance. Though that victory doesn't have to come in the first two games, a split is the goal before the series shifts to American Airlines Center for Games 3 and 4, where the Mavs were 1-1 against Sacramento this season. ``We beat them twice [in Sacramento] this year,'' Nowitzki said, ``and we're confident we can steal one of the two.'' Utah did that in the first round against Sacramento, splitting the first two in Arco, before losing the next two _ and the best-of-five series _ in Salt Lake City. If the Kings are suddenly vulnerable at home, the Mavs aren't saying. They're taking a cautious approach. ``We're going in and trying to take one game at a time,'' Finley said. ``We're not looking forward to the next series or the game [after Saturday], we're just looking at the task at hand and that's the game coming up.'' While 14-year-old Arco (capacity: 17,317) is generally regarded as one of the NBA's toughest arenas since the resurgence of the Kings, the qualities that make it so tough on opposing teams are what the Mavs like most about it. It might seem perverse to teams run off the court by the Kings, but the Mavs relish the fans' proximity to the floor and the wall of sound that seems to reverberate out of every crevice. ``It's very, very loud,'' Van Exel said. ``It's like a college atmosphere because the crowd is right up on you. It's a lot of fun because the crowd really gets on you. They try to make it loud and they really support their Kings.'' Added Nash: ``That's the loudest building in the league. I wish our fans can experience that building. It's the only ticket they have in town and their fans really make the most of it.'' But can the Mavs continue to make the most of playing in Arco? Their playoff lives depend on it. nn 
