Now that the Connecticut women's basketball team has recorded its third national championship and second undefeated season in eight years, what does coach Geno Auriemma do for an encore? He talked at a news conference on Wednesday about such possibilities as coaching a Women's National Basketball Association team or becoming coach of a college men's team or an assistant coach of an NBA or college team. But the bottom line was this: He has coached Connecticut for 17 years and plans to stay at least eight years more. As coach of the national champions, Auriemma received the New York Athletic Club Winged Foot Award on Wednesday night at a club dinner in Manhattan. Earlier, when asked about career options, he said the WNBA was ``not a bad life if they pay you enough.'' ``From May to September you work, and you spend the rest of your time watching games,'' Auriemma said. ``But I'm going to hold out until I become president, general manager and player personnel director of a Hartford franchise.'' Discussing the possibility of coaching a men's team, Auriemma said, ``Part of me would enjoy it, but I don't know any college men's coach who's truly happy.'' As he considered other options, Auriemma said: ``I'd like to have a friend get an NBA job and me be an assistant, or be at a major, major university and be third assistant and just go to practice and not have to recruit. And if a player complains about not enough playing time, you can say, `Hey, it's not me.''' In truth, Auriemma is looking forward to Oct. 15, when college practice begins. He must replace four graduating seniors, but he thrives on less-than-perfect scenarios. ``I think the year after you win a national championship is the toughest year,'' he said. ``You're constantly comparing. Your new team hasn't done anything yet. You're sure they can't do what your team did last March. I rant and rave. No matter how good your team is, you're moaning and groaning about what they can't do. ``When I look out on the court and we're doing everything we planned, I'm happy. But that happens only 10 percent of the time, so I'm not happy 90 percent of the time.'' That restlessness is a key to Auriemma's success. ``I don't know what I want to do,'' he said. ``I don't make any plans. I'm 48. I can't start over. My son is 13, and I would like to coach at least until he is out of college. You can't make long-term plans because things change. I might be having more fun at 58 than I am now. ``I'll know when it's time. If I walk away from coaching tomorrow, I won't miss it a bit. When I'm in, I'm in. When I'm out, I'm out. I'll be comfortable with that when the time comes.'' 
