The McGreevey administration and the YankeeNets organization were close to agreement Wednesday on the terms of the joint state and private financing of a sports arena in downtown Newark, some officials close to the negotiations said. But others said some last-minute clarifications and apparent differences over those items were blocking the signing and announcement of a memorandum of understanding on the $355 million arena. Neither the state officials nor the YankeeNets representatives participating in the nearly three months of talks on the deal would publicly describe the issues that stood in the way of a final announcement. But some familiar with the negotiations said the state was pressing the YankeeNets, which owns the New Jersey Devils and the New Jersey Nets, to absorb any cost overruns in the construction of the 18,500-seat arena and insisting that the YankeeNets buy insurance for the part of the financing that would come from some $165 million or $170 million in state-issued bonds. The goal of having such insurance and having it paid for by the YankeeNets, one official close to the negotiations said, was to ensure that New Jersey taxpayers would not be held liable for paying off the bonds if the arena failed to generate the revenues to do that. But it is no by means clear that the arena bonds will be secure enough that anyone will want to insure them. The word of a potential agreement came on the day that Gov. James McGreevey set some three months ago as a possible deadline. At that time, he rejected proposals for a Newark arena that had been championed by his predecessor, Donald DiFrancesco, saying that he wanted his own plan and would have one by May 1. It also comes as the Newark mayoral race is entering its final lap, and McGreevey is seeking ways to aid the campaign of Mayor Sharpe James, an advocate of the arena. Paul Aronsohn, a spokesman for McGreevey, conceded Wednesday that the governor had missed his own self-imposed deadline for a final deal. But Aronsohn insisted that it was because ``he wants it done right'' and was willing to wait. Calls for comment to Len Coleman, the lead negotiator for the YankeeNets in the effort to get a replacement arena for the current Continental Airlines Arena at the Meadowlands, were not returned. Even with a memorandum of understanding, any plan would have to be approved by the state Legislature, where hostility toward any new state spending, sports franchises in general and the shifting of a sports venue from one county to another is particularly intense. (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.) Such hostility doomed the plan advanced by DiFrancesco last year, even as his Republican Party controlled both houses of the Legislature. Supporters added more and more pork-barrel projects for other areas of the state in an attempt to make the Newark arena more palatable, and the entire plan collapsed of its sheer weight. The plan being developed is similar to the earlier one in that both call for the state to create a sports and entertainment district covering an area around the proposed arena in downtown Newark. Sales, income and hotel tax revenues generated by the increased economic activity in this district would be pledged to pay off bonds that the state agency would issue to help finance the arena. In the district, the sales tax would be 6 percent, compared with the much lower 3 percent allowed in the rest of Newark under the state's Urban Enterprise Zone program, intended to spur economic activity in struggling urban areas. Under the McGreevey administration's plan, the state would issue only $165 million in bonds and not $190 million, as DiFrancesco had proposed. The YankeeNets would contribute $140 million to $150 million to the plan, up from the $115 million previously called for. The remaining $50 million is to come from the Newark and Essex County governments. 
