A new study documents a rising flood of lobbying money in state capitals around the nation, showing that the amount spent on lobbying state legislators and disclosed by states has nearly doubled in five years. The study, prepared by the Center for Public Integrity, a nonprofit Washington research group that monitors money in politics, shows that lobbyists spent $570 million in 2000 to influence legislators in 34 states, a rise of 91 percent from 1995, when fewer states reported such spending. Sixteen states still do not tabulate lobbyist spending, so the national total would be much higher. The study documented nearly 37,000 businesses, associations and interest groups that are registered lobbyists in the 50 states, a ratio of about five lobbyists to every state legislator. The largest lobbying groups in nearly every capital city were the ones paid by the industries that were most closely regulated: insurance, education, local governments, and health care. ``It's become a huge business,'' said Diane Renzulli, a principal author of the study. ``It takes money to access state lawmakers just as it does in Washington, but in the states there's far less attention to the givers and what they got.'' The center, which compiled the lobbyist disclosure forms from each state that requires them, found that California lobbyists had by far the largest operation, spending $180 million in 2000, compared with $66 million spent in New York, the state with the next highest amount. In part, that is because California's economy is so large and thus the stakes higher for groups affected by legislation. The authors also noted the penchant by a a full-time legislature, like California's, for considering a great deal of legislation, which lobbyists are often paid to kill. But, the report said, lobbyists also wield outsized influence in states with only a part-time legislature and staff. In states like Indiana, which have only one legislative aide for every two legislators, lobbyists often write the text of bills affecting their industries or professions. State legislators themselves often have close ties to the industries and issues they vote on, the center found, particularly because they are rarely subject to the same conflict-of-interest rules that apply to Congress. The center found that one in five of the nation's 7,400 state legislators sat on a committee that regulated industries or issues in which they had a personal financial interest, and that 18 percent had a financial connection to a business or group that lobbied in their statehouse. The report included several examples of insurance lawyers who sit on insurance committees or banking executives who write banking laws. In Arkansas, Renzulli said, one legislator was also a registered lobbyist. Though the center recommends disclosure laws to let voters know about these activities, many large states still do not tally lobbying totals, including Michigan, Colorado and North Carolina. Tennessee does not require any expense reporting by lobbyists. At the National Conference of State Legislatures, officials acknowledged the prevalence of lobbying but said the study did not show that it was necessarily an evil. ``Lobbying is done by interests large and small that want to communicate their views to a legislature, which we think is just fine,'' said Peggy Kerns, director of the conference's Center for Ethics and Government and a former Colorado legislator. ``The question is not so much how much money is spent, but what does the money get them? They're suggesting it buys a special influence, but that's not necessarily so.'' 
