A big night. A big crowd. A big man. The San Antonio Spurs expect all of that tonight when they face Seattle in the final game of their best-of-five first-round playoff series. Tim Duncan, who missed Game 4 on Wednesday _ a 91-79 loss at Seattle _ after the death of his father, is expected back. ``He called me today, and I'm very optimistic he'll be there,'' guard Antonio Daniels, a friend of Duncan's, said late Wednesday. Malik Rose, another friend, said he also anticipates Duncan's return. ``When I see Timmy come back, I might even shed a tear,'' Rose said. While Duncan apparently will return, the Spurs are unlikely to have David Robinson, whose injured lower back has yet to heal. Wednesday was the first playoff game that both big men have missed since Duncan joined the team before the 1997-98 season. The Spurs shot only 32.9 percent and trailed by 28 in the third quarter before staging a comeback that made the score more respectable. Rose, playing to the point of exhaustion, scored a career-high 28 points and collected 13 rebounds. But the 6-foot-6-inch Rose needed help that only Duncan can provide. The 7-foot Duncan leads the Spurs in scoring, rebounds and blocked shots. Spurs Coach Gregg Popovich said that Robinson is not just doubtful for tonight. If the Spurs beat Seattle, Robinson is unlikely to be ready if the Spurs advance to a second-round series against the Lakers on Sunday in Los Angeles. The Spurs should have Danny Ferry, their reserve forward. Ferry, who has a sprained right wrist, played for only two minutes in Game 4. Ferry said he could have played considerably more, but when the Spurs fell far behind Seattle in the first half, Popovich elected to ensure that he is ready for a Game 5. During pregame warmups Wednesday, Ferry, one of the Spurs' best shooters, hit eight in a row despite a heavily wrapped wrist. ``I try to put my legs into the shot more,'' said Ferry, whose range of motion is limited by the injury. The Spurs seemed intent Wednesday on displaying their toughness. Bruce Bowen received a technical foul for landing a hard elbow to Seattle guard Brent Barry's chest. Mark Bryant was ejected after shoving the Sonics' Gary Payton. ``This is the playoffs,'' Spurs guard Antonio Daniels said. ``No one is going to give any ground to anyone.'' That includes Seattle. ``Their tactics are going to look like a Swedish massage compared to what's going to happen in Game 5,'' Sonics forward Vin Baker said. The Spurs will give Duncan a warm welcome home. But they have no idea how Duncan will perform under difficult circumstances. ``I don't know,'' said Ferry when asked for a prediction. ``This is uncharted territory for me. It's uncharted territory for all of us, I think.'' Mark Rosner writes for the Austin American-Statesman. E-mail: mrosner(at)statesman.com Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
