Ask any talking head you happen to see walking down the street (you'll know them by their pancake makeup), and they will tell you the same thing: Broadcast news is a dinosaur, withering under the assault of 24-hour cable outlets. The three aging white guys are strictly old-school. The nightly network newscasts are obsolete in the age of 24-hour coverage _ the analog to today's digital, the horse-and-buggy to the automobile, a dull knife in a gunfight, a (something else really old) to (something else really new). While they're blathering, walk away. Remember one fact: The nightly broadcast newscasts on average draw nearly 30 million viewers. Each one outdraws top cable news programs by a minimum ratio of 3 to 1; the broadcasters have a 10 to 1 edge in viewers over most cablecasts. ``The dire predictions are vastly overstated, and they came not from within the industry but from the outside,'' said NBC anchor Tom Brokaw, who moderated a panel discussion Tuesday at ``The Summit in Tech Valley II'' at the Albany Marriott Hotel. He's right. Network news isn't dying, especially with the profitability of the morning shows such as ``Today'' and ``Good Morning America.'' ``There's more choice now across the networks than there ever has been,'' he said. ``The news presence on a network is growing; it is not contracting.'' These programs will endure, unless the greedy money men at Disney decide to commit corporate suicide and shut down ABC News. (Not likely.) It hasn't lost its relevance, either. The nightly newscast offers something the headline-of-the-moment cable guys can't: Perspective afforded by time. Part of the broadcasters' perception problem is a result of the structure of media's coverage of itself. By necessity, those who cover the press _ me, for example _ spend a lot of time writing about the cable news outlets _ who is coming, who is going, who recently had a face lift _ that you would naturally think they were the biggest game out there. Wrong. Cable news just happens to create the most news. Over at the Big Three nightly newscasts, there's just Dan and Peter and Tom _ year after year for almost two decades. Even Brokaw said that when the three gathered for a recent TV Guide cover shoot, it looked like a photo for an anchor retirement home. Broadcast network anchor positions rarely open up. Until now, that stability made the networks a non-story when compared to the combustibility and growth of cable news. Sure, change is coming to the network icons, but probably not right away. Dan Rather, 70, has re-upped at CBS, while Peter Jennings, 64, is in negotiations at ABC (the mouse-eared suits reportedly asked Jennings to take a 25 percent salary cut). That leaves Brokaw. At this time last year, it looked like the 62-year-old South Dakotan was going to pull up stakes and head back West after his contract expired this summer _ especially after he took the bulk of the summer off. But that was before Sept. 11. ``I'm going to stay in the chair while the story is going on,'' Brokaw said. ``I haven't made a long-term decision about my life. A year ago at this time, when it seemed like news would be a lot duller, I was thinking I would drift off and do other things. ``I'm energized by the story,'' he continued. ``I think it's a very big story, and I think it will have a long-term effect on how we live as Americans.'' It appears that Brokaw will stay on, at least past this summer. ``Probably _ I'm trying not to make any announcements. I just don't do this in the press.'' How much longer after that is anyone's guess. Another guess is the fate of broadcast news after the inevitable changing of the guard. Since the Alphabets haven't faced the departure of a nightly anchor since the explosion of cable, no one can be sure what the impact of change will be. ``I think it's impossible to know,'' Brokaw said. ``Obviously, the three of us have been there for a long time. The audience has kind of grown up with us, in a manner of speaking.'' And the next generation will just grow up with someone else. Don't write the obit yet. (Mark McGuire is the television and radio writer for the Albany Times Union, P.O. Box 15000, Albany, NY 12212. His electronic mail address is mmcguire(at)timesunion.com) 
