Relaxing with a cigarette, wearing jeans, loafers and leisure jacket, President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela hardly looked like he had been to the edge of the political abyss and back. But in an interview away from the presidential palace, Chavez said the experience of being ousted from office last month in a popular uprising, then restored to power two days later, had not fundamentally changed him. ``It is the same Chavez, the same Chavez as always,'' the president, speaking in the third person as he often does, said late Wednesday. Two weeks after retaking office in triumph, Chavez, 47, said that his self-proclaimed peaceful revolution continued on the same path, with the goal of reforming Venezuela's oil-dependent ``neo-liberal'' economy and funneling revenues into social programs to bring social equality to a country that he says has been pillaged by the rich for most of its history. ``We have resumed the Bolivarian project,'' said Chavez, as he sat back in a comfortable chair at a palatial government house overlooking Caracas. Spicing his talk with quotes from his hero, Simon Bolivar, the 19th-century South American liberator, the president said that the ``most perfect system of governments is one that gives its people the greatest quantity of political stability, the greatest quantity of social security, the greatest quantity of happiness. ``When you ask what we want with the revolution, well, that is what we want, brother,'' Chavez said. ``The essence of a revolutionary process, peaceful and democratic, is to give our people, to all without exception, without exclusion of anyone because of class, skin color or religious beliefs, the greatest quantity of happiness possible.'' Chavez's efforts to bring that happiness, though, come as Venezuela emerges from its most serious political crisis in a decade, one that exposed the country's raw and angry divisions between the great masses of poor people who support the president and an antagonized middle and upper class that despises him. Though Chavez said that the economy would grow and that his government was firmly in place, Venezuela is in a precarious political and economic quandary. The International Monetary Fund said the economy would contract by nearly 1 percent this year, which economists attribute to capital flight and falling production at the state-owned oil company. In the National Assembly, the president's allies, who once dominated the chamber, now have a bare majority. An opposition movement of labor leaders, business people and intellectuals _ many of whom helped mount protests against Chavez _ are promising a referendum seeking his recall within two years. Venezuelans are also watching to see if the military, whose leaders opened the way to his downfall when they withdrew their support in the aftermath of protests that turned violent on April 11, will remain loyal to the president. ``He does find himself more constrained than he was,'' said Michael Shifter, who follows Venezuela for the Inter-American Dialogue, a Washington policy analysis group. ``The question is whether he recognizes the situation he's in and the choices that he faces and whether it's possible for him to respond in a much more moderate and pragmatic way.'' Chavez has, since his return, seemed to acknowledge that the ground beneath him has shifted. He has asked the opposition, which he often denigrated in the past, to join his government in ``a great debate,'' and he has promised to ``sheathe'' his sword, acknowledging that his harsh language has hurt people. He has also taken tangible steps welcomed by the most influential sector among his opponents, the business class. He named Ali Rodriguez, the well-respected secretary-general of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, and a new board of directors to head the state oil company, gestures that were accommodating to company executives whose rebellion against government interference helped set off protests. The president has also promised to shake up his Cabinet with a new economic team, while allies in Congress say several economic laws that were bitterly opposed by businessmen may be reformed. ``I think he's learned from this,'' Rep. William Delahunt, D-Mass., said in an interview last weekend after he and two other members of Congress, Rep. Cass Ballenger, R-N.C., and Sen. Lincoln Chafee, R-R.I., met with Chavez. ``I think he understands that healing and reconciliation are the true qualities of leadership, not division.'' Some of Chavez's closest aides said he understands the need to change his style, if not the social policies the government has put in place to remake this country of 24 million. Tarek William Saab, a congressman and foreign policy adviser to the president, said that Chavez's jolting experience has strengthened his conviction that he is destined to play a role in history. But Saab said that the president also believes that he has to find new ways of dealing with political opponents. ``He is a person who has been thinking profoundly, who recognizes his faults and errors,'' said Saab. ``And as a human being, he is rectifying and asking for help. He knows he cannot do it alone, though.'' Opponents said Chavez has offered to open the doors to the opposition in the past, only to revert to what critics say is an autocratic style, complete with insults and threats. (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.) ``His dialogues are really monologues,'' said Alberto Garrido, author of several books on the president and his movement. ``Chavez is a man with a thermometer in his hand, trying to see how far he has to go. There will not be profound changes.'' In a wide-ranging talk, Chavez rattled off his government's achievements and calmly offered his views on a range of subjects, from his days as a young soldier to his rocky relationship with neighboring Colombia. But when he spoke of his country's great political divide, Chavez gesticulated to make his points, sounding conciliatory one moment and dismissive the next. Chavez downplayed the strength of his opposition, even though he was removed from office in a popular uprising that had been in the making for months. ``There is no serious political opposition,'' he said. ``I do not have here in the opposition someone I can call to sit here with me to talk about themes in depth, someone who is a serious, honest leader who has the leadership in the opposition.'' Still, Chavez said he is ``dedicating more time to listen to criticism and ideas'' and working harder to consider the policy views of the ``economic powers, political sectors, the opposition.'' He also said he is not opposed to a nascent movement by opponents to mount a referendum on his rule, explaining that such a measure is legal in 2004 under the constitution. Speaking of the United States, which receives most of Venezuela's oil exports, Chavez said his government has to do a better job to improve its image in Washington. Bush administration officials, irked by Chavez's dalliances with Cuban President Fidel Castro and Saddam Hussein of Iraq, seemed pleased in the hours after Chavez was ousted. ``There is a false perception in Washington of what Chavez and Venezuela is,'' said the president. ``We have to work harder so they perceive us as we are: a democratic country, with a legitimate president, respectful of human rights, with liberty of expression.'' Chavez, however, said relations with the United States were going ``through a difficult moment'' because of allegations that U.S. officials were involved in what the government here considers a coup. Bush administration officials have denied playing any role in Chavez's removal. Chavez said it would be ``horrible'' if the United States was involved. ``What I have said is that I ask God that it turns out to be false.'' 
