Midland police officers broke a window to gain entry into an apartment before arresting University of Texas running back Cedric Benson and his companion, Benson's lawyers said Wednesday. The lawyers believe that because police did not have a warrant that their subsequent search, which police say turned up marijuana, drug paraphernalia and alcohol, was illegal. They plan to file a motion in Midland County to suppress the evidence collected against Benson and his companion, Melanie Robinson. Bob Stevens, the assistant district attorney for Midland County who is handling the Benson case, said Wednesday that a judge likely will conduct a hearing on the motion to suppress within the next seven to 10 days. Stevens said he could not comment on the specifics of the case. He said he plans to interview the arresting officers and speak to defense lawyers this week. Benson is represented by Brian Carney of Midland and John Carsey of Austin. Benson and Robinson were arrested early Saturday morning and charged with possession of less than two ounces of marijuana, a Class B misdemeanor; possession of drug paraphernalia and minor in possession of alcohol, both Class C misdemeanors. The Class B charge is punishable by up to a $2,000 fine and six months in jail. The Class C misdemeanor carries a fine of up to $500. According to Midland police spokeswoman Tina Jauz, officers were called to the apartment at 2:17 a.m. because of a ``loud party complaint.'' They looked in the window of the apartment, she said, and then knocked. She said officers saw marijuana in ``open view'' in several places. However, Carney said Wednesday that the marijuana was found in a purse that did not belong to either Benson or Robinson. There had been about 10 people at the apartment for a party earlier in the evening, but when officers arrived, only Benson and Robinson remained, according to their lawyers. The drug paraphernalia, which hasn't been identified, was found in another room, Carsey said. Benson was visiting his mother in Midland. She lives within walking distance of the apartment. Independent inspection of police records in Benson's case has been impossible because the Midland police have refused to release the portion of the arrest report that state law says is public information. The American-Statesman and other media have requested the report under Texas open records laws. The law says ``basic information about an arrested person, an arrest, or a crime is not excepted from required public disclosure.'' The law says the information that should be made public includes an arrested person's name, the location of a crime, particulars of the arrest, identification and description of the complainant and many other details, including such routine factors as the weather. Jauz said the arrest report will be withheld for at least 10 days, which she contended was allowed under state law, while officials decide if it contains information that should not be released. She said that is standard department policy. Texas Attorney General's office spokesman Mike Viesca said the decision to release the report before the 10 days has expired is up to the local agency. However, Attorney General John Cornyn, in an open records order on Feb. 8, 2000 said: ``A governmental body must release public information not excepted from required disclosure under the Public Information Act promptly. The prompt release of information requires release as soon as possible under the circumstances, that is, within a reasonable time, without delay.'' The law ``does not entitle a governmental body automatically to withhold for 10 business days public information not excepted from disclosure,'' Cornyn wrote. Benson, on the advice of his lawyers, has declined to speak about the arrest. Suzanne Halliburton writes for the Austin American-Statesman. E-mail: shalliburton(at)statesman.com. The Associated Press contributed to this story. Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
