An election-year battle over prescription drugs began in earnest Wednesday as House Republicans and Senate Democrats rolled out competing proposals to provide Medicare drug benefits to the elderly. On the steps of the Capitol, Speaker Dennis Hastert said the House of Representatives would approve a Republican plan by May 24, leaving plenty of time for the Senate to take up the legislation this year. At the same time, inside the Capitol, the Democratic leaders of the Senate and the House denounced the House Republican approach, saying it was inadequate and unworkable. An hour later, two Democratic senators, Bob Graham of Florida and Zell Miller of Georgia, unveiled a proposal that would be more generous to Medicare beneficiaries _ and more costly to the government. The two sides are at odds not only over the cost but over the design of prescription drug coverage, which is expected to be a volatile issue in this fall's closely contested elections. Democrats say they hope to regain control of the House and pick up seats in the Senate by emphasizing the issue. In recent years, polls have shown that voters favor the Democratic approach. In criticizing the Republican proposal Wednesday, Sen. Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts sounded themes sure to be echoed in Democratic campaign commercials this fall. ``Republicans put a higher priority on tax breaks for the wealthy than on prescription drugs for the elderly,'' Kennedy said. ``Seniors may be better off purchasing a bus ticket to Canada than relying on this Republican proposal.'' Republicans insist that they want to expand Medicare, the health insurance program for the elderly and disabled, to cover prescription drugs. But, they say, they are offering a different approach that envisions a larger role for private insurers. That strategy helped House Republicans defend themselves two years ago against Democratic attacks when they passed a similar bill to add drug benefits to Medicare. The Senate endorsed a very different proposal in 2000, and the two chambers never agreed. Hastert said Wednesday that the House Republican plan would ``lower the cost of prescription drugs now'' and ``guarantee all senior citizens drug coverage under Medicare.'' But Miller, a conservative Democrat, said, ``All the posturing and procrastinating we've done on this issue have not helped a single senior pay for a single prescription.'' There is, he said, ``no reason except cheap political gamesmanship that we can't have a drug benefit before Election Day.'' Medicare generally does not cover prescription drugs outside a hospital. Outpatient drug spending for Medicare beneficiaries will exceed $86 billion this year and averages $2,150 a person, the Congressional Budget Office says. Private insurance pays some of these costs, but nearly one-third of the 40 million beneficiaries have no insurance for drug expenses. The proposals, as described Wednesday, differ in these ways: _ Medicare beneficiaries would pay premiums of $35 to $40 a month for drug coverage under the House Republican plan. Graham and Miller's proposal would charge $25 a month, in hopes of inducing more people to sign up. _ Beneficiaries would have to pay the first $250 a year in drug expenses under the House Republican plan. There is no deductible under the Senate Democrats' plan. _ Under the House Republican plan, Medicare would pay any pharmaceutical expenses after a beneficiary had spent $5,000 in a year. Senate Democrats would set a $4,000 limit. _ The House Republican plan would cost up to $350 billion over the next 10 years and would continue indefinitely. The Senate Democratic plan would cost $400 billion to $500 billion and would not continue beyond 2010 unless Congress reauthorized it. President Bush's budget called for a $190 billion program. By suspending the program in 2011, Graham and Miller would limit the costs, at least on paper. Graham said Congress ought to reassess the program at that stage anyway. Democrats said the House Republican plan had a big gap _ an interval in which beneficiaries would be responsible for all their drug costs, and Medicare would pay nothing. Thomas and other House Republicans envision a complex cost-sharing arrangement. After a beneficiary has met the $250 deductible, Medicare would pay 70 percent or 75 percent of drug costs from $251 to $1,000. Medicare would then pay about 50 percent of drug costs from $1,001 to $2,000, or perhaps $2,250. At that point, the federal payments would stop, and they would not resume until the patient had spent $5,000 on medicines. ``This gap in coverage would be devastating for most seniors,'' said Tom Daschle, the South Dakota Democrat who is the Senate majority leader. AARP, the nonprofit advocacy group for Americans 50 years and older, opposes such gaps. The House Democratic leader, Rep. Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, underlined another difference between the parties. As part of the Medicare bill, he said, House Democrats want to take some action to drive down drug prices, but he did not say how. Christin Tinsworth, a spokeswoman for Thomas, said that under the House Republican plan, Medicare beneficiaries could lower their costs even while spending their own money, because they would be buying medicines as a group and would be entitled to substantial discounts. 
