Neuroscientists announced Wednesday that they have created the world's first radio-controlled animal by wiring a computer chip directly into the brain of a living rat. The rat wears a small antenna and a backpack that translates a radio signal into electrical pulses applied to the brain. In one experiment here at the State University of New York Downstate Medical Center, a researcher with a laptop was able to guide the rat over a complex three-dimensional maze of ladders, filing cabinets, and thin wooden boards, even though the animal usually prefers to skulk in dark corners. ``It is one of the most amazing demonstrations I have ever seen,'' said Miguel A.L. Nicolelis, a Duke neuroscientist who specializes in brain-machine interfaces and has worked with the scientists on other projects. ``These rats were able to go through mazes that very expensive robots never could.'' The new ``ratbot,'' funded in part by the US military, can be equipped with a miniature video camera and might one day be used to find victims in buildings after an earthquake or bombing, according to the research team. But in imposing a primitive form of mind control, the researchers acknowledge that the technology takes science into challenging ethical territory. ``I certainly don't think it would be a good idea to put these in primates, or especially in humans,'' said John K. Chapin, a professor of physiology and pharmacology at the medical center. The ratbot was produced, according to a paper appearing in today's edition of the journal Nature, by delicately placing three electrodes in the rat's brain. Two electrodes for turning were placed in an area called the somatosensory cortical, where the brain processes the sense of touch. A third electrode, for rewarding the animal, was placed in an area called the medial forebrain bundle, which processes pleasure. When one electrode is turned on, the rat feels a virtual touch coming from its left whisker, the researchers said, while a second electrode does the same for the right whisker. This is how they steered the rats: When the animal feels a touch and turns in that direction, the reward electrode pulses on, generating a fleeting feeling of intense euphoria the animal is eager to feel again. The reward center has been known since the 1950s, when scientists showed that electrical stimulation brings intense pleasure to rats. But using it to shape behavior in higher animals would cause ethical problems, said Chapin. ``It would be equivalent,'' he said, ``to getting someone addicted to crack cocaine.'' Scientists said Wednesday's announcement was not a major scientific advance, but rather another demonstration of the speed with which neuroscientists are learning to directly decode the electrical language of the brain. In November 2000, a team of researchers was able to control a robotic arm using motor signals from a monkey's brain. And in March of this year, a researcher at Brown University reported that his monkeys were able to control a cursor on a screen simply by thinking about it. The research is generating excitement because it could eventually be used to help severely paralyzed people, neuroscientists said. These demonstrations ``give strength to the hope that one day we may have a brain chip, similar to a cochlear implant or a heart pacemaker, that can control a smart prosthetic arm of a paralyzed person or an amputee, while at the same time giving the person touch feedback,'' said Mandayam A. Srinivasan, who worked on the monkey-controlled robotic arm and directs MIT's Touch Lab. The researchers all cautioned, though, that brain-machine interfaces must pass significant hurdles before they could be used medically. Scientists do not know, for example, how to ensure that the body does not engulf the electrodes in a barrier of tissue, a natural process called encapsulation. And nobody knows what other side effects might come with connecting to large numbers of neurons. In the meantime, the field has attracted the interest of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, a research arm of the Department of Defense. That agency joined the National Institutes of Health in funding the project, and it has requested $12 million for its Brain Machine Interface program in fiscal year 2003, according to a spokesman. In April, Anthony J. Tether, director of the research projects agency, testified about the work before members of the subcommittee on emerging threats and capabilities of the US Senate Committee on Armed Services. ``We do not yet fully understand the implications of this work,'' he said. ``But imagine how useful and important it could be for a warfighter to use only the power of his thoughts to do things at great distances.'' The ratbot technology could be used in search and rescue operations or to clear mines, the scientists said. For those applications, however, they would need a better live video hookup, according to Sanjiv K. Talwar, a research assistant professor at the medical center who is the paper's lead author. The researchers loaded a tiny video camera into the backpack, but the image was very shaky, lurching as the mouse moved. It is also difficult to transmit video signals from a collapsed building and to transmit controlling radio signals in, said Shaohua Xu, the member of the team that controlled the rats. One solution, Chapin said, would be to send in a large group of rats, some as seekers charged with finding victims and others as followers who would hang back and form a chain of radio transmitters linking to the surface. The transmitter was effective at distances up to 500 meters (1,640 feet), according to the paper, but the range was not measured through rubble, which would drastically reduce the effective distance. Regardless of the potential applications, the ratbot project will challenge people to examine the rightful limits of human effort to bring animals under their control, said Glen McGee, a University of Pennsylvania bioethicist. ``If you can do this with a rat, why not a house cat or a dog?'' asked McGee. ``And if you did this with another domesticated animal, what would you deprive it of that it has not already lost?'' The lead researcher said that as the project has unfolded, he has felt the mix of emotions that come from being in uncharted territory. ``Personally, I think there is something sort of creepy about the whole idea,'' said Talwar. ``But that's only because we are not used to it.'' Gareth Cook can be reached at cook(at)globe.com. 
