Baseball made a triumphant return to Brooklyn last summer. The Cyclones, a minor league affiliate of the Mets, played their inaugural season at KeySpan Park on Coney Island. The team won a share of the New York-Penn League championship and succeeded off the field. Cyclones merchandise flew off the shelves, and business generally improved at local restaurants and stores as a result of the team's novelty and immediate popularity. ``People from San Francisco, Seattle and even Japan are coming to the park to buy merchandise -- in the off-season,'' said Rich Muelthaler, retail manager at the Cyclone City gift shop in the ballpark. ``Not bad for a short-season, single-A club.'' Nino Russo, the owner of Gargiulo's, a popular Italian restaurant on Surf Avenue, just east of the ballpark, concurred. ``A lot of businesses and restaurants here haven't seen numbers like this before,'' he said. ``Like my dad always says, a new broom sweeps good.'' Some merchants in the neighborhood have a different outlook. Anna Ellison, who runs Coney Island Furniture on Surf Avenue, said the Cyclones have not produced any new business but have brought the local government's wrath instead. ``The Building Department and Community Board 13 have turned against us,'' she said. ``All of a sudden, they're picking on furniture stores -- businesses that have brought in people all year round for 25 years, and not just during the three months of summer.'' Ellison said that Surf Avenue is zoned only for amusement or antique-related businesses, so the local government wants stores like hers removed for newer, fancier ones. ``They're hoping to turn this place into Disneyland,'' she said. ``It won't happen with this ballpark, not in 50 years.'' Community Board 13 has flea markets and mattress stores in its sights. ``They never should've been given permits to begin with,'' said Chuck Reichenthal, district manager of Community Board 13. ``There's too much of their merchandise on north Surf Avenue sidewalks, leaving nowhere to walk.'' When the Brooklyn Dodgers moved to Los Angeles after the 1957 season, the loss was more than symbolic. It was part of a downswing in the borough's fortunes that included the departure of industries, businesses, people and confidence and lasted through much of the 1980s. While much of Brooklyn had recovered by the 1990s, prosperity eluded the southern neighborhood of Coney Island. Long a New York summer amusement destination, it suffered through the lingering winter of the borough's doldrums. Coney Islanders are now hoping to ride the Cyclones' wave. ``It's been very positive, very successful,'' Reichenthal said of the team's impact. ``Things are happening. Food vendors are excited. New restaurants are scheduled to go in the park itself, while others are talking about moving into the area. Although the recent economic downturn has slowed momentum somewhat.'' Russo said: ``It puts a new spirit in Coney Island. Old Coney Islanders come back to see a game, come back for the first time in a while.'' The surroundings have changed. The Cyclones' new stadium was built on the grounds of the Steeplechase Park amusement park. But on a crisp, spring day under clear, blue skies, the Parachute Drop is a visible reminder of the neighborhood's past. The Cyclones' organization looks forward to getting involved in the community. ``We're starting up a Coney Island little league,'' said R.C. Reuteman, the team's senior vice president for business affairs. ``It's the first in years. Already, 500 kids have signed up.'' Reuteman also spoke about coming ballpark events, like a hospital fund-raiser, Mets tryouts, corporate picnics and baseball fantasy camps and clinics. ``For a lot of the kids here,'' said Sandro Ortega, the manager of Nathan's Famous, ``it's their first opportunity to see baseball games. Now they don't have to go all the way to the Bronx or Queens.'' Two months before the season opener in June, half of the available 6,500 season tickets had been purchased. Many Coney Islanders welcome the return of spirit and enthusiasm that left with the Dodgers. ``Fans here are very passionate about the Cyclones, like they were about the Dodgers,'' Reuteman said. ``It's a Brooklyn pride thing.'' (EDITORS: There is no charge for use of this story, but please send a tearsheet to Professor Stephen D. Isaacs, Columbia News Service, Graduate School of Journalism, Columbia University, 2950 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10027.) 
