 California's commercial wild salmon season is on. From today until mid-October, the deeply colored and richly flavored local chinook, or king, salmon will be available in restaurants and markets. Serious seafood chefs like Mark Franz of Farallon in San Francisco dance in anticipation of the California catch's silvery beauties. ``The wild fish are great,'' says Franz, a Bay Area native who grew up eating them. ``It's richer. It's got more fat. It's got more flavor. And,'' he adds, ``it's nice to use the local stuff _ it doesn't have to travel so far.'' While last summer's catch was a paltry 2.3 million pounds, this year's is predicted to be double that _ some 4 to 5 million pounds _ about the same as in 2000, according to the Pacific Fisheries Management Council. The wild California king fishery has edged its way back toward good health since the damming of the rivers where they spawn almost drove them to extinction, according to industry spokesmen, regulators and advocates for wild salmon. Fish ladders on the dammed rivers and better management of the catch have helped their numbers grow. Overfishing has depleting the levels of many dinner-table seafood favorites like Chilean sea bass to dangerously low levels. But California's wild salmon, which are caught on hooks and not in nets, are considered a better bet. While the National Marine Fisheries Service as recently as last year still listed the California king as overfished, the Monterey Aquarium calls it a ``best choice,'' meaning the wild population is abundant enough to sustain commercial fishing. Nearly 500 California fishing boats, about half of them based in the Bay Area, will be trolling for wild salmon, according to David Goldenberg of the California Salmon Council. Salmon-lovers will be able to buy wild salmon fillets and steaks for around $6 a pound, Goldenberg predicts. Wild salmon is sometimes available to the public fresh off the boat at Pillar Point Harbor in Half Moon Bay. Call ahead, (650) 726-4382, to find out if any boats are selling. Wild king salmon get their fiery color and distinct flavor from feeding on krill-like tiny shrimps and sardines in the Pacific. Swimming through miles of ocean also builds a firm flesh full of beneficial Omega-3 fatty acids. Farm-raised salmon are a different species of fish, more like a trout, wild salmon fans point out, swimming in pens and feeding on commercial fish food. While some local chefs and salmon-lovers make a point of buying only wild fish in season, Goldberg says consumers are so used to seeing inexpensive salmon in the fish cases year-round that they don't even notice the California king season. It's here. And it will be open through Oct. 18. 
