Here are the top Times Express stories planned for Thursday, May 2. The night supervisor for The New York Times News Service is Pat Ryan; phone: 888-346-9867 or 212-556-1927; e-mail: patryan(at)nytimes.com. 	EXP-MIDEAST (Ramallah, West Bank) _ A ledeall: Yasser Arafat has apparently reached an agreement with American and British officials that would pave the way for his release from his compound, though it is uncertain if he will emerge Wednesday. (Staff byline TK) 	EXP-AFGHAN (Khost, Afghanistan) _ Two senior Afghan commanders here said Wednesday that they had been involved in six commando operations in the past three weeks, each involving hundreds of American and British soldiers. While these large operations have netted a respectable amount of weapons and ammunition, they have not managed to kill any Qaida soldiers and have arrested but two suspects. By Barry Bearak. 	EXP-FRANCE-PROTESTS (Paris) _ More than 400,000 protesters _ for and against Jean-Marie Le Pen _ took to the streets Wednesday during May Day protests. By Suzanne Daley. 	EXP-BRITAIN-ELECT (Burnley, England) _ A look at the local elections here, where the far-right British National Party is looking to gain some seats on Thursday. By Sarah Lyall. 	EXP-MISSING-GIRL (Kansas City) _ Almost exactly a year ago, the nude, decapitated body of an unidentified girl was found in Kansas City. The police launched one of their extensive investigations ever. The community, which named her Precious Doe, was haunted by the case. Now her identity may be known as police wait to see whether she is a Florida girl who recently discovered to have been been missing for 15 months, even though state officials were supposed to be monitoring her whereabouts. By Jody Wilgoren and Dana Canedy. 	EXP-LINDBERGH-REDUX (Farmingdale, N.Y.) _ Charles Lindbergh's grandson, Erik, took off Wednesday from not-quite-the same place as his grandfather did in 1927 in an effort to recreate Charles Lindbergh's crossing of the Atlantic. By Bruce Lambert. 	EXP-MORTGAGE-DELINQUENCY (Richmond, Va.) _ The recession has caused many lower-income people to fall behind on their mortgage loans, but many banks have not foreclosed. Instead, lenders have restructured many loans, in the hope that the drops in borrowers' incomes turn out to be temporary. Now, as the economy continues to show signs of emerging from recession, things seem to be working out for lenders: at the end of last year, delinquencies fell for the first time in almost a year. By David Leonhardt. 	EXP-CONGRESS-DRUGS (Washington) _ The congressional battle over prescription drugs begins in earnest as House Republicans and Senate Democrats roll out competing proposals to offer Medicare drug benefits to the elderly. By Robert Pear. 	EXP-GERMANY-LABOR (Frankfurt) _ Germany is facing its first wave of strikes since 1995, actions that could derail an emerging economic recovery and may hurt the re-election prospects for Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder's government. By Edmund L. Andrews. 	EXP-SUN-RETIRE (San Francisco) _ Sun Microsystems says that Ed Zander, 55, its president and chief operating officer, will retire, the latest in a series of executive changes at the company. Scott McNealy, the chief executive, will take over Zander's duties. By Chris Gaither. 	QUESTIONS OR RERUNS: 888-346-9867 or 212-556-1927: 	The evening supervisor is Pat Ryan (E-mail, patryan(at)nytimes.com). 	The late supervisor is Ray Krueger (E-mail, krueger(at)nytimes.com). 	PHOTOS AND GRAPHICS: 	The photo-graphics editor is Sergio Florez 	Phone: 888-603-1036 	E-mail: florez(at)nytimes.com 	TECHNICAL PROBLEMS: 	Berris Anderson 	(212) 499-3337, berris(at)nytimes.com 	e-mail to pager: page-berris(at)nytimes.com 	numeric page: 1-800-759-8888 pin 1066839 	or 	Harry Brindley 	(212) 499-3304, harryb(at)nytimes.com 	e-mail to pager: harryb(at)nytimes.com 	numeric page: 1-888-710-8736 	NEW YORK TIMES PARTNERS: 	Please note that your New York Times News Service report includes news and features from The Arizona Republic, The Boston Globe, Cox News Service, The Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Hearst Newspapers, The Houston Chronicle, The Kansas City Star, The Los Angeles Daily News, The San Francisco Chronicle, The Seattle Post-Intelligencer, States News Service and the New York Times Regional Newspapers. 	(Editors: All clients receive all budgets, but only full-service clients receive all stories. Please check your level of service to determine which stories you will receive.) 
