Sorting through dozens of intelligence reports each day in the search for top leaders of Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida network, Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said he remains optimistic. ``Hope springs eternal,'' Rumsfeld said at a Wednesday Pentagon briefing. Looking for bin Laden and his associates is, he added, more law enforcement work than military task. ``I mean, I'm realistic. I know darn well until we actually accomplish it, it isn't done,'' he said. The search for bin Laden and others who fled Afghanistan in the wake of the U.S. attack that began last year is taking a new dimension amid news reports of U.S. forces crossing the border into Pakistan, a sensitive issue for that country's officials. Rumsfeld would not confirm that any such action was under way or imminent. He hewed to the position he's consistently taken of leaving comments about other countries' actions to their leaders. The primary focus in Afghanistan now is on the eastern area where major fighting occurred earlier. It also was once a stronghold of the radical Islamic Taliban, which governed much of the nation before being ousted last year. As the weather warms in that rugged, mountainous terrain, many observers expect renewed attacks and guerilla activity. Marine Gen. Peter Pace, vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff who was with Rumsfeld, said military operations are continuing and ``although it's nothing significant right now, that could change at any time.'' Rumsfeld noted that while there are ``periodic flareups,'' security in Afghanistan is ``generally good.'' He said he was impressed by the return of refugees. ``I have a friend who says if you want to know what's really going on, give it the gate test: You lift up the gate and see which way things are moving,'' Rumsfeld said. ``And people are voting with their feet, which is an encouraging thing, it seems to me.'' According to the U.S. Committee for Refugees in Washington, more than 3.5 million Afghan refugees had been living outside the country. Hiram Ruiz, a committee spokesman, said roughly 500,000 refugees have returned recently. ``I think it will continue to stay at this very quick pace, probably through the summer months,'' Ruiz said, adding that the returns illustrate confidence among refugees. But he said refugees also have high expectations for international assistance and will increase pressure on the country's long-ravaged infrastructure and economy. (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS) Another security concern is increased fighting among tribal warlords who hold great sway in parts of highly armed Afghanistan. Several recent incidents have been reported as preparations continue for a grand council in June to develop a new administration as a step toward a permanent government. U.S. forces are not involved in responding to fighting between rival warlords, said Pentagon spokesman Lt. Col. Dave Lapan. ``We're monitoring it, but we're not getting directly involved.'' The anticipated U.S. training of an Afghan national army is to begin in about a week, Lapan added. (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS) In other developments from the briefing: -- Rumsfeld said NATO will end May 16 its deployment of surveillance flights in the United States. The operation began Oct. 9, he said, and involved more than 360 sorties in the first such NATO action in the continental United States. -- Pace said the transfer of detainees from temporary prison facilities at the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to more permanent quarters there had been completed and ``went very smoothly.'' -- Rumsfeld said U.S. troops began this week to train and equip the military in the Republic of Georgia as part of its efforts to fight terrorism. George Edmonson's e-mail is gedmonson(at)coxnews.com. ENDIT Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
