Los Angeles Dodgers catcher Paul Lo Duca signed his first substantial contract in spring training and was eager to prove deserving of it. Instead, the first month of the season has produced mostly frustration. So much so, in fact, that Lo Duca said Wednesday he was putting too much pressure on himself to drive in runs and he needed to relax more in the batter's box. He also went to the videotape of his breakout 2001 season and noticed he was leaning over the plate more this season, which could explain his three hit-by-pitches. ``I just don't feel right,'' said Lo Duca, who was batting .295 with a homer and nine RBI. ``I'm struggling at the plate. I just don't feel right. I'm not driving the ball. I'm getting my hits in there, but they're not hits that count. I want to get hits that count. I want to get hits when games are on the line, when we need some hits, and that's what I haven't done.'' Lo Duca, known for being tough on himself, was batting .300 (6 for 20) with seven RBI with runners in scoring position entering Wednesday's game against Cincinnati. Meanwhile, Shawn Green was batting .290 (9 for 31) with 14 RBI; Brian Jordan .222 (6 for 27) with 13 RBI; Eric Karros .333 (6 for 18) with 10 RBI, and Adrian Beltre was hitting .292 (7 for 24) with eight RBI. Lo Duca, who signed a three-year, $7.25 million deal in February, added to his torment Wednesday by failing to drive in the tying run with the bases loaded and one out in the third inning. Instead, Reds right fielder Juan Encarnacion caught Lo Duca's fly ball and doubled up Mark Grudzielanek with a strong throw to home plate. With runners in scoring position last season, Lo Duca batted .379 with seven homers and 66 RBI. ``It's not wearing on me. I'm just putting too much pressure on myself,'' Lo Duca said. ``I'm trying to do too much. I just want to come through in the clutch situations when we need it. I'm not striking out. I'm making contact. I'm just a tad off here and there. ``The pitching hasn't been any different than it has in the past. I'm just not getting wood on the ball when I have to. My timing has been off.'' --And he can pitch: Jesse Orosco became a feel-good story the first month of the season because not many major-leaguers pitch at the age of 45. But Orosco is going beyond that: Not only is he in his 23rd season in the majors, he's thriving. The only run Orosco has allowed came April 7, on a two-out single from Colorado's Juan Uribe. Since then, the left-handed specialist has allowed two hits in seven appearances. His ERA is 1.42. ``I'm 45 and I still pretty much have the same stuff I had at the beginning of my career,'' Orosco said. ``Curveball is still there. Velocity is still there. I just know how to use it better than I did 20 years ago.'' --Kearns tests normal: Reds right fielder Austin Kearns won't be available the rest of the series because his left eye is swollen shut, the result of being hit by a pitch from Giovanni Carrara in the ninth inning Tuesday. Kearns, who underwent tests at the Kerlan-Jobe Clinic, might have escaped serious injury. X-rays were negative and a CT scan was normal, a Reds spokesman said. Carrara's pitch hit Kearns in the helmet, which dug into his head and caused several cuts. Prior to Wednesday's game, Carrara said he would find Kearns and apologize for the pitch. ``I was scared because that's the first time ever I hit somebody in the face,'' Carrara said. ``It's horrible to hit somebody in the face.'' --Odds and ends: Dodgers manager Jim Tracy said Green was playing deep in right field with the bases loaded in Tuesday's ninth inning because of Wilton Guerrero's ability to hit the ball that way. When asked if the ball should have been caught, or if Green got a poor jump, Tracy said, ``I'm not going to beat a dead horse.'' Tracy spoke with Green during the last road trip about being more aggressive for balls in the outfield. ... Right-hander Kevin Brown came out of his Tuesday start with no elbow soreness and was able to play catch in the outfield. ... The Dodgers led the National League with a .985 fielding percentage and were tied with Texas for the lowest error total in the majors with 14. ... The Dodgers' 16 wins in April were their most since then went 17-8 in 1984. 
