THE WORKING COOK: Celebrate the season with tender young things BY TARA DUGGAN c. 2002 The San Francisco Chronicle  SAN FRANCISCO _ Spring brings some of the stranger vegetables, many that look perfect and petite, but you may not be sure what to do with them. Green garlic and spring onions are just two examples. Both of these are adolescent versions of the more pungent mature vegetables. They look kind of mysterious but taste wonderful. Green garlic has a narrow bulb and long, leafy stem. The bulb hasn't yet formed into cloves and has a mild but pleasant garlicky flavor. The same is true of spring onions, which are juicy and much sweeter than mature onions. Try green garlic in a fresh soup with potatoes and mushrooms. If you can, use a few fresh morels, another treat in spring. The earthy mushrooms are nicely balanced with a large dose of the green garlic, which softens even more after cooking in the broth. The pork stew with spring onions and fennel also has sweet baby carrots. Both the onions and carrots don't need to cook that long, but get stewed in the liquid when the pork is almost done. The simple broth is fresh and light. Green garlic has leafy greens that taste like garlic but are not nearly as strong, and the greens of spring onions can be bitter, but also can add an interesting flavor. Both of these young vegetables are great in salads, and both usually are available now through the end of May or June. FAST &AMP; FRESH: A main dish in less than 35 minutes. FRESH GREEN GARLIC SOUP WITH POTATOES &AMP; MUSHROOMS Ingredients: 1/2 ounce dried morels or other wild mushrooms 2 cups boiling water 7 stalks of green garlic 1 pound red new potatoes, or other waxy potatoes 2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil 1/2 cup dry white wine 4 cups chicken stock or water 1/4 pound fresh wild mushrooms 1/2 pound button mushrooms Salt and pepper to taste Instructions: Put the dried mushrooms in a bowl and add the boiling water. Set aside to steep. Trim off the roots and the entire leafy ends of the garlic (you may reserve the greens to slice up in a salad) and peel off any rough outer layers. Thinly slice the white part of the stalks. Peel the potatoes and cut into 1/2-inch dice. Heat 1 tablespoon of the oil in a large saucepan. Add all but 1 tablespoon of the garlic and saute for a few minutes, until tender. Add the potatoes, wine and stock. Bring to a simmer, cover, and cook until the potatoes are tender, 12 to 15 minutes. While the soup cooks, cut the fresh mushrooms into bite-size pieces. Heat the remaining 1 tablespoon oil in a skillet, then add the reserved 1 tablespoon garlic. Cook for a minute, then add the fresh mushrooms. Season with salt. Saute over medium-high heat for about 5 minutes, until browned and tender. Remove the dried mushrooms from their soaking liquid, squeeze dry and slice thinly. Add the mushrooms and their soaking liquid to the soup, being careful to leave behind any traces of sand or dirt in the soaking water. Heat through, then season with salt and pepper. If you used water or salt-free stock instead of broth, you will need to add a lot of salt. Ladle the soup into bowls and top each serving with a portion of the sauteed mushrooms. Serves 4. PER SERVING: 215 calories, 9 g protein, 25 g carbohydrate, 8 g fat (1 g saturated), 1 mg cholesterol, 17 mg sodium, 4 g fiber. NOW &AMP; LATER: Dinner this week and 2 for the freezer BRAISED PORK WITH SPRING ONIONS, FENNEL AND WHITE WINE This is good served with boiled potatoes or polenta. Ingredients: 3 pounds boneless pork butt or shoulder, cut into 3/4-inch cubes, fat trimmed Salt and pepper, to taste 4 tablespoons olive oil 2 fennel bulbs, cored and thinly sliced 4 garlic cloves, minced 2 cups dry white wine 3 thyme sprigs About 5 cups water 10 spring onions 15 to 20 baby carrots, or 6 large carrots Instructions: Generously season the pork with salt and pepper. Place a large, heavy stockpot over medium-high heat. When quite hot, add enough oil to cover the bottom of the pot. Heat until almost smoking. Working in batches, carefully add the pork. Do not crowd the pan or the meat will stew instead of brown. Fry the pork for a few minutes on one side; stir and continue frying. Do not stir frequently or the meat will not reach a golden-brown color. When the meat has browned on both sides, remove it from the pan with a slotted spoon; set aside. Repeat with the remaining pork, adding more oil if necessary, until all the meat has browned; set aside. Add the fennel to the pan, and saute for 5 to 8 minutes, until tender. Add the garlic and saute for 1 minute. Add the wine and deglaze the pot, stirring, for a few minutes. Return the pork to the pan, add the thyme sprigs, then add enough water to come two-thirds of the way up on the meat. Bring to a simmer, cover and cook for 1 hour. Meanwhile, trim off the leafy stems and the root ends of the onions. Cut the onions in half lengthwise. Trim the baby carrots and wash them, or peel the large carrots and cut each into chunks. After the pork has cooked for 1 hour, add the onion bulbs, making sure there is still enough liquid to submerge them. Cook for 10 minutes, then add the carrots, cover and cook until tender, another 10 to 15 minutes. If the stew is too liquidy, strain the liquid and simmer it until thickened. Remove the thyme sprigs from the pork and vegetables, place them in the liquid and heat through. Serves 12. PER SERVING: 280 calories, 25 g protein, 8 g carbohydrate, 14 g fat (4 g saturated), 83 mg cholesterol, 120 mg sodium, 2 g fiber. 
