Wall Street analysts are supposed to be savvy people who know the industry they cover as well as they know their way home at night. That's why investors pay a lot of money for their advice. Unfortunately, too many of those analysts have behaved as high-paid carnival barkers, trying to lure suckers inside the tent where they would soon be parted with their money. And finally, somebody has worked up the guts to say so. That ``somebody'' wasn't the Securities and Exchange Commission, the federal agency charged with ensuring the honesty of the stock market. The SEC long ago lost its ability to challenge the industry it is supposed to oversee. Nor was it a congressional oversight committee, armed with staff and subpoena power. Congressmen get way too much campaign money from Wall Street to take an honest look at what happens there. Instead, the curtain on this national scandal has been pulled back by a state elected official, the attorney general of New York. What Elliot Spitzer has found is in one sense shocking _ in another sense just what you expected. Focusing initially on one major company, Merrill Lynch, Spitzer has uncovered overwhelming evidence that Merrill analysts knowingly misled its investing clients about the fiscal health of major companies. The analysts' motive was money. Like many major brokerage houses, Merrill also serves as an investment banker, providing financial services for large companies. That creates a serious conflict of interest. While Merrill's analysts are supposed to provide unbiased research into the soundness of major companies, Merrill's investment bankers are trying to woo those same companies as clients. To prevent that conflict, a ``Chinese wall'' bars interaction between stock analysts and investment bankers. But at Merrill and elsewhere, that wall was a complete fiction. Internal e-mails and documents subpoenaed from Merrill, as well as interviews with Merrill staff, indicate the company had long ago abandoned such ethical niceties. For example, Merrill wanted to do banking business from an Internet startup called GoTo.com. So it allowed GoTo executives to dictate what Merrill analysts would say about the stock. Even worse, GoTo demanded that Merrill downgrade the stock of a GoTo competitor, and Merrill complied. ``We are losing people money and I don't like it,'' one analyst complained in an e-mail to her boss, Henry Blodget. ``John and Mary Smith are losing their retirement because we don't want (GoTo) mad at us.'' Even Blodget, Merrill's star Internet analyst, got angry at times over the pressure from the banking side. In one e-mail, he threatened ``to start calling the stocks ... like we see them, no matter what the ancillary business consequences are.'' But don't feel sorry for Blodget. He understood that he and his group got paid depending on how much investment banking they helped to lure to the company. In 2001, after Blodget documented his help in attracting $115 million in investment-banking fees, Merrill paid him $12 million. Not bad for a carnival barker. After initially dismissing Spitzer as a grandstander, Merrill's leadership has begun apologizing for its behavior and seeking to settle with the New York attorney general. Spitzer has now broadened his inquiry to other Wall Street brokerages, where the hunting will probably be just as good. Because the truth is, the corruption was no secret. It was hinted at, whispered about and generally accepted as the way business was done. As far back as 1999, SEC Chairman Arthur Levitt warned in a speech ``that investors are being influenced too much by analysts whose evaluations read like they graduated from the Lake Woebegon School of Securities Analysis _ the one that boasts that all its securities are above average.'' But the SEC didn't begin to move on the problem until last week, when it was finally embarrassed into action by Spitzer's probe. In Congress, U.S. Rep. Richard Baker of Louisiana has responded with harsh criticism aimed not at Wall Street, but at Spitzer, for daring to intrude on federal turf. As chairman of a House subcommittee, Baker had held hearings for a year on the issue of biased stock analysis, but somehow he managed to miss what Spitzer had discovered with relatively little effort. That's not surprising. If you look at Baker's campaign-disclosure forms, you'll find tens of thousands of dollars in contributions from banks and other financial institutions. The corruption runs deep. Jay Bookman is the deputy editorial page editor of the Atlanta Journal-Constitution. Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
