J. Crew Group Inc., whose sales have slumped over the last 18 months, announced Wednesday that its chief executive, Mark Sarvary, had left the company and the board of directors, effective immediately. The company did not name a replacement but said in a statement that an aggressive search was under way for ``a new chief executive with an extensive merchandising background.'' Sarvary's departure came as little surprise to the retail and investment community. J. Crew has been struggling. Sales slipped 6 percent, to $778 million, in 2001, and the company had a net loss last year of $11 million, compared with a profit of $11.9 million for fiscal 2000. (J. Crew is privately held, but it is required to report financial results because its debt is traded publicly.) More worrisome for investors, J. Crew's earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization were down by more than one-third, to $53 million. This measure of cash flow, known as Ebitda, is the one most closely watched by investors in leveraged buyouts like J. Crew because it reflects the company's profitability before taking into account the heavy debts assumed by investors to buy the business. The poor performance had disappointed Texas Pacific Group, the leveraged-buyout specialist that bought 60 percent of J. Crew in 1997 for $560 million. Texas Pacific had been trying to convert J. Crew from a catalog company with a few stores to a retail player that could compete in the mall with stores like Gap and Express and then be sold at a profit. But under Sarvary, who took J. Crew's helm in 1998, growth has not been smooth. While he earned a fine reputation as an executive with Nestle, he arrived at J. Crew with no experience in merchandising. Designers who worked with Sarvary and then left for other jobs complained of his lack of knowledge of apparel basics, like the difference between a knit and weave shirt. Former employees say that Sarvary's lack of merchandising expertise also complicated the transforming of J. Crew from a cataloger to an in-store retailer. The stores are routinely out of stock of popular merchandise, like the brown-hued corduroys of last fall. Executive recruiters said Texas Pacific has deep pockets and is aiming to bring in top level talent to replace Sarvary, although so far they have been frustrated in these efforts. Besides merchandising skills, recruiters predicted that the new chief executive would have to have some financial expertise to impress investors. So far, Sarvary's departure does not seem to have made much of an impression on bondholders. ``It was known in the market that he was likely on his way out,'' said Andrew Ebersole, a bond analyst with KDP Investment Advisors. ``The really important question is who is on the way in.'' 
