Now I understand why it's relatively easy to get in the rent-house business. After spending three weekends doing the type of back-breaking and at times disgusting work that I went to college precisely to avoid, being a landlord is losing its allure. No wonder I've met so many former rental-property owners. A few months back, a buddy and I bought a rambling old duplex under the business name TOF Properties, which stands for Two Old Fools and some other less savory variations. Two old fools is exactly how we felt as we ran off the original batch of renters and tried to restore our investment to a state of habitation. There are people in the world who don't mind living in filth. This is a way of life utterly foreign to me. Not poor, not messy, but filthy. It cuts across all social strata. There are dirt-poor folks who live in ramshackle but clean houses. There are rich folks who live amidst garbage and don't seem to mind, or even notice. College students are almost always messy but usually not filthy. We had the misfortune of inheriting renters who were both _ with one exception, a young man who brought this whole uneasy arrangement crashing down because he couldn't live like this anymore. I won't ruin your breakfast with the details. Suffice it to say my partner and I lost weight over these weekends of hauling out garbage and cleaning. That's not necessarily a bad thing, but I wouldn't recommend it as a weight-loss program. I always knew there were people in the world who lived like pigs, but I've never had to clean up after them before. After cleaning, we took the opportunity of an empty house to begin fixing things. That's hard to do when the house is full of college boys who don't wake up until 5 p.m. on weekends, which is about the time we middle-aged folks decide we've done enough work for the day. My partner can fix almost anything. I can do carpentry, but wiring, plumbing and other endeavors are risky if tried alone. We make a pretty good team, me handing him wrenches while he puzzles out the next project. We found new renters, another set of college boys, which is the only class of folks interested in living in a large, (now) clean, but certainly funky duplex. They volunteered to repaint the interior and have spent every night after classes and work up there, covering the crazily painted walls with clean white paint. Compared with the last set, these guys are refreshingly ambitious. Buoyed by their willingness to make this place look better, we've invested in new carpet, appliances and other major investments. Plus we actually have a security deposit and a one-year lease this time around. You learn from your mistakes. The next-door neighbor to our duplex will be 90 next month. She's still sharp as a tack and spends much of the day examining her many plants and flowers in the front yard. As the previous bunch of scalawags were moving out, she asked one of them, ``What's the matter? Y'all don't like Nacogdoches?'' and laughed. I laughed, too. Thank God and Greyhound they're gone, we were both thinking. I promised her to provide better neighbors this time around. There are rules about parking in the yard, and a plastic chain to stop them from doing so. College students want to park their cars as absolutely close to the house as possible, if allowed. Other rules: No trash, beer cans or cigarette butts in the yard. A dog in the house could invite the death penalty. The longer you're a landlord, the meaner you get. My partner and I sat on the front porch the other day, savoring the fruits of our labors. The place actually looks pretty good. If I was 20 and single, I wouldn't mind living here myself. Thank the Lord I'm not 20. Soon, we'll paint the outside and make some other minor carpentry repairs, after which we're seriously thinking about selling out and retiring from the business. My partner keeps muttering about how he hasn't been fishing in weeks, and my golf game has gone down the tubes. Gary Borders is editor and publisher of The Nacogdoches (Texas) Daily Sentinel. Email: gborders(at)coxnews.com. Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
