The New York Times said in an editorial for Thursday, May 2: Sen. Orrin Hatch, a conservative Republican and longstanding opponent of abortion, jolted social and religious conservatives this week when he came out strongly in favor of therapeutic cloning. The Utah Republican offered a way of thinking about this divisive issue that could prove far more persuasive with wavering senators than the cramped policy championed by President Bush. Bush favors a ban on all human cloning, whether to make a human baby or for research on potentially lifesaving therapies. The president opposes even research cloning because it involves the creation of embryos that are then destroyed to obtain stem cells for research and potential treatments. Hatch, whose pro-life credentials are every bit as strong as the president's, concluded that the tiny clusters of cells that scientists use in laboratory experiments cannot be equated with human life. Indeed, the senator said that once he had mastered the subject, his decision to back therapeutic cloning, which could benefit millions of Americans suffering from intractable diseases, ``was not _ and I repeat not _ a close call.'' Hatch's announcement came as the Senate is moving fitfully toward a vote on human cloning. One bill, which has passed the House and been endorsed by Bush, would ban all human cloning, whether for research or reproduction. A far better bill, backed by Hatch and other senators, would ban reproductive cloning but allow research and therapeutic cloning to go forward. Scientists believe the research could eventually yield treatments for such diseases as diabetes, Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, heart disease and cancer. In an explanation that deserves close attention, Hatch described why he believes the tiny cell clusters that scientists work with should not be considered human life. In therapeutic cloning, he noted, scientists first take the genetic material from, say, the skin cell of an adult and inject it into a female egg cell whose own genetic material has been removed. Then they stimulate the cell electrically and it begins to divide in a laboratory dish, enabling scientists to harvest ``stem cells'' that can be used for research on potential therapies. Although some right-to-lifers contend that the new cell created in the laboratory becomes a human life at the moment it is electrically activated, Hatch disagreed. He noted that the egg is never fertilized with sperm, and that the embryo will not be implanted in a woman's womb, so there is no chance of a birth. ``At the core of my support for regenerative medicine research is my belief that human life requires and begins in a mother's nurturing womb,'' he said, echoing a stance he took last year in the stem cell debate. With the Senate closely divided, Hatch's position should give a welcome boost to the advocates of therapeutic cloning. 
