Home Section stories from The New York Times News Service for Thursday, May 2. 	HOUSE-PROUD (New York) _ The home of Andrew and Wan Kyun Rha Kim includes Cultural Revolution artifacts and European-style designs interpreted by Chinese artisans. By William L. Hamilton. 	HOME-MOVIE (Palos Hills, Ill.) _ In this quiet suburb southwest of Chicago, an inventor named Ben Skora has transformed a kit house from Sears, Roebuck &AMP; Co. into what he calls a ``futuristic electronic residence.'' With the flick of a switch, a hidden bar rumbles out from a wall panel. From there, it is just a few steps down to the sunken living room, which is rigged to spin at a gentle speed on a turntable hidden beneath plum-colored carpeting. The Skora house is one of five in the documentary film ``Home Movie,'' which opens in New York on Friday. All were designed or renovated by enthusiastic amateurs paying little attention to architectural fashion and even less to resale value. Along with Skora, ``Home Movie'' visits a woman in her 70s who has occupied a Hawaiian treehouse for 30 years; a couple who have rebuilt their San Diego property as a playhouse for their 12 cats; a man who spends his days raising alligators and his nights on an air-conditioned Louisiana houseboat; and a husband and wife who live underground at a former nuclear missile site a few miles outside of Topeka, Kan. By Christopher Hawthorne. 	RUG-AUCTIONS (London) _ Soon-to-be the co-owner of an 1872 brownstone in New York, I had flown to London to bid on Oriental carpets _ as many as I could buy with $10,000 of borrowed money. From the printed estimates published in catalogues and the full-color photographs of each rug, it was evident London was the place to go for a bargain. That's what I thought. By Tracie Rozhon. 	GARDEN-COLUMN (Undated) _ The beguiling world of small grasses. By Marty Ross. 	GARDEN-Q&AMP;A (Undated) _ Gardening questions answered. By Dora Galitzki. 	For information and repeats call the News Service at (888) 346-9867 or (212) 556-1927. And be sure to look for other stories from our partners: The Boston Globe, Cox News Service, Hearst Newspapers, The Houston Chronicle, The Arizona Republic, Kansas City Star, Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Los Angeles Daily News, San Francisco Chronicle and Seattle Post-Intelligencer. 	(Editors: All clients receive all budgets, but only full-service clients receive all stories. Please check your level of service to determine which stories you will receive.) 
