Gov. James McGreevey has set off a testy exchange with his predecessor, Christie Whitman, by accusing her of eroding the quality of the State Supreme Court by selecting justices based on their political credentials rather than judicial qualifications. McGreevey, who is now seeking to fill the first New Jersey Supreme Court vacancy of his term, said that the court was once considered the most intellectually rigorous state court in the country, but had slipped in recent years because Whitman chose appointees more for their political experience than legal excellence. McGreevey vowed to choose a candidate from outside government and resume the practice of allowing the State Bar Association to review potential nominees. Whitman ended the bar association's involvement in the process in 1999, after its committee on judicial nominations said her nominee, Attorney General Peter Verniero, lacked the experience to sit on the Supreme Court. ``We need to restore the intellectual capital, the integrity, the gravitas of the New Jersey Supreme Court,'' McGreevey said in an interview Friday with The Associated Press. ``Unfortunately, these past years under the Whitman administration, it became an avenue for patronage for those within the executive branch.'' Those comments infuriated Whitman, who named six of the seven current justices, spurring her to release a letter in which she criticized McGreevey's comments, which she called ludicrous. ``I am truly at a loss to understand what prompted you to attack these fine men and women,'' Whitman wrote in a letter released Monday. ``Yours were the kind of unfounded comments that, on their face, diminish not only the person who makes them, but also the office in which he serves.'' For years, legal experts have praised New Jersey's court for its ambitious and innovative rulings on issues from surrogate parents and affordable housing to school financing for poor communities. But the appointment of Verniero, who was confirmed by the State Senate after a bitter partisan battle, brought criticism from legal scholars, some of whom argued that Whitman had been seeking to rein in a court that many conservatives considered overly activist. Whitman, who had refrained from criticizing her successors since leaving office last year to become administrator of the Environmental Protection Administration, defended the justices she appointed, saying they were ``among the brightest legal scholars anywhere.'' ``To wholesale dismiss these exemplary justices, to characterize their ascension to the Supreme Court as patronage, and to criticize them as `insiders' because they chose at various times in their careers to serve in state government, is ludicrous,'' she wrote. McGreevey said he called Whitman on Monday to discuss the matter, although he would not characterize their discussion. In an interview Tuesday, McGreevey said he wished he had chosen his words more carefully, but did not back away from their substance. ``I was attempting, in an inartful way, to emphasize the need for academic and professional excellence as well as necessarily, and independent review of a prospective justice by the State Bar Association,'' McGreevey said. ``I have great respect for the chief justice and the court,'' he added. Republican legislators, who have been stung by McGreevey's repeated assertions that he inherited the state's budget deficit from Republicans, were also quick to defend the justices appointed by the Whitman administration. Assemblyman Guy Gregg said McGreevey himself had made controversial appointments to the positions of state police superintendent and special counsel on homeland security. ``Here you have two positions that directly impact on the safety of our citizens, and the governor chose to make political appointments, despite clear evidence that there were better qualified individuals for those two jobs,'' said Gregg, who represents Hunterdon County. ``So how much room does he have to criticize Governor Whitman's appointments to the Supreme Court?'' 
