A conservative group led by Jack Kemp on Thursday proposed sending a five-person inspection team of former U.S. military personnel to investigate claims that the Israeli army killed large numbers of Palestinians in the Jenin refugee camp on the West Bank. ``This team has the military background and qualifications to determine what really happened on the ground in Jenin,'' said Kemp, former Reagan administration housing secretary and 1996 Republican vice presidential candidate, who is chairman of the group _ The Foundation for the Defense of Democracies. ``Serious allegations have been made,'' Kemp said in a statement. ``Those allegations should be looked into by investigators who have both technical expertise and relevant experience.'' A spokesman for Kemp said that he was unavailable for an interview. U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan on Wednesday cancelled his plans for a U.N. fact-finding team amid resistance by Israel, whose forces invaded the West Bank refugee camp early in April to hunt for suspected Palestinian terrorists linked to suicide bombings. The ensuing battle at Jenin flattened much of the camp and caused a still undetermined number of deaths. Palestinians under Yasir Arafat labeled it a massacre by Israeli troops. The government of Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon attributed the destruction to the normal back-and-forth exchanges of fire common in urban warfare. Clifford May, founder and president of the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies, said the group is seeking permission from Sharon and Arafat to send its five-person team to Jenin. Group personnel were selected by a defense consulting firm, Electronic Warfare Associates Inc. of Herndon, Va. Leading the group is an EWA program director and retired Army intelligence and special operations officer, Paul Wolfe. The team would attempt to figure out ``whether rockets were fired from helicopters or was (destruction caused by) close-quarters urban combat,'' May said. ``Ex-military people can figure it out. There's no reason to think the non-military people sent by U.N. would be competent to do this. They'd turn it into (an anti-Israel) propaganda ploy.'' May started the foundation last year in the wake of the September 11 terrorist attacks. He describes it as a ``pro-war movement'' think tank focused on eradicating terrorism. 
