Bennett is the artistic associate at a women's theater and Meyer manages performers _ searched through three Hudson Valley counties. Often, the day would end with dinner in Saugerties, N.Y., a 19th-century village built around a once-thriving ironworks and mill on the western shore of the Hudson River, in Ulster County. The women were drawn to the brick and Victorian buildings, left over from Saugerties' industrial heyday, as well as a large used-book store, a theater built in the 1890s where tickets to first-run films were $6, and a swimming beach on a creek off the Hudson. Eventually, the women realized that they no longer wanted what they thought they wanted. ``We always thought that if we bought a house, it would be in the country,'' Bennett said. ``But the more we looked, the more we decided that we didn't want to be quite that isolated. Saugerties had the river, the mountains and a real feeling of community.'' Within weeks, they found a Federal-style brick house with three bedrooms and space for a garden, for $104,000. The average price for single-family houses in town is $132,000 and rising, according to Steve Hubbard, a local real estate broker. From the porch of their new house, which they bought last month, Bennett and Meyer can gaze at the Catskill Mountains. When they need to make repairs, they can go around the corner to Smith's, a plank-floored hardware store where the Smith family has been selling tools for four generations. Unlike Woodstock, N.Y., with its yoga studios and art galleries only 10 miles away, Saugerties' identity remains staunchly working class _ bingo nights and sports bars are much in evidence _ even if the heavy industries no longer exist and the 4,500 full-time residents scramble to make ends meet. Yet Saugerties is a town in transition. Three new shops and restaurants suggest a changing clientele: Ann Marie's Bistro, serving rack of lamb for $24.95; a housewares store, selling coasters for $40 a set; and the Inquiring Mind bookstore (one of three in the village), where patrons curl up on couches with The New York Review of Books. Although some visitors may see a struggling industrial town with no industry, others spy a diamond in the rough. That perception is on the rise among weekenders who are happy to make the two-hour drive from Manhattan. Real-estate agents say that sensibly priced properties in Saugerties disappear within days, and the value of homes has risen 27 percent since 1999. Many houses were built at the turn of the 19th century, although Rickie Tamayo and her husband, James, proprietors of the Cafe Tamayo in town, live in a 270-year-old piece of stone history. ``The families that are here have been in this town for generations,'' Tamayo said. ``Our house dates from the 1730s, and when we bought it 15 years ago, we were the third owners. Wrap your mind around that.'' Many people are attracted by the area's natural beauty, particularly its stunning Hudson River scenery. This is best viewed from the deck of the Saugerties Lighthouse, an 1869 beacon that is now a bed-and-breakfast. Guests pay $160 to sleep on the river and, in the morning, devour pancakes and bacon made by the lighthouse keeper. The inn has become so popular on weekends that it is booked through October. But Saugerties is also within a half-hour drive of classical concerts at Bard College in Annandale-on-Hudson, rock and blues clubs in Woodstock and theatrical events at the arts center in Kingston. Besides weekenders, the newest residents are antiques dealers, whose stores line the village's shopping district, and artists, who enjoy their proximity to Woodstock but appreciate Saugerties' more reasonable prices. Nancy Campbell, an oil painter who specializes in street scenes, was so optimistic that a cultural renaissance was taking place in Saugerties that she opened the Half Moon gallery last December and says the response from both the old and new residents has been enthusiastic. ``It's about time,'' they keep telling her, she said. Campbell is certain, however, that her hometown will never morph into a kitschy tourist trap. ``At its heart, this is a working-class community,'' she said.``Saugerties has always been proud of its blue-collar roots, and that's not going to change.'' 
