It's an 8:45 a.m. shift change at the Tombstone Firehouse in Queens, the home of Ladder Company 128 and Engine Company 259. Probies, first-year firefighters, jump into action. They check tools and life-saving equipment on the companies' trucks, each in its own garage, waiting for the next emergency call. Through the door, high-pitched sounds emanate from the back of the trucks, lasting four or five seconds. The soprano-like shrills break down into rolling pulsating reverberations that fade out. If it were not for the loudness of this familiar noise, one could mistake it for the chirping of red-winged blackbirds in the trees that line a cemetery across the street. But the noise is from tests of a safety device that can save firefighters' lives. The device, standard equipment for all professional firefighters, reacts to varying conditions of a raging fire. ``The sounds are from the Personal Alert Safety Systems,'' says Firefighter John Grant as he pours coffee into a cup. ``They can save lives by alerting firefighters to different dangerous situations.'' When air is dangerously low in a firefighter's tank, the PASS alarm the firefighter to fall back to a spot where the mask isn't needed. On Sept. 11, Grant, off duty at the time, commandeered a fire truck with other off-duty firefighters from a nearby depot. When he reached the site, the towers had just fallen and the area was blocked off while Building No. 7 burned. ``The air was so thick with smoke and dust,'' Grant says. ``All we heard were the PASS sounds while we waited. We were standing around going through a lot of air tanks to keep our lungs clear so we could get into the site.'' As many as 1,000 firefighters descended on the site after the collapse, but the dirty air and the heat of the fire forced most of them to wait and watch. Still, 343 firefighters lost their lives in the disaster. It's not clear how many lives were saved by the PASS system that day. David Billig, a fire department spokesman, said not enough information has been collected to evaluate the effectiveness of the PASS at the World Trade Centers. In a study conducted by the NFPA in 1997, more than 60 percent of respondents said they did not turn on their PASS devices at every fire. The NFPA found that one-third of 36 firefighters who had been killed while wearing the 10-year-old devices might have been saved had their devices been self-activating. As a result, in 1998, the National Fire Protection Administration, the governing body that writes fire safety standards in building codes nationwide, changed the requirements for the PASS device from manual to automatic activation. Now the devices, which look like small air gauges on scuba equipment, are turned on automatically, when the air supply is activated. The automatic devices came along at the right time. In the last 10 years, the improvement in the heat protection of fire retardant gear worn by firefighters has gotten them into much hotter situations. ``A firefighter can get into areas where the temperature is 300 degrees,'' said Todd Duke, an instructor at a fire and rescue training school in Florida. ``The alarm will sound off to let the firefighter know that he is in a situation where it is so hot that the building could collapse around him.'' A PASS device also activates when it senses no movement coming from the firefighter who wears it. ``The PASS device can save a firefighter's life,'' Grant says, ``if he is knocked out or he's in a position where he can't get his hands on his radio.'' Chirping sounds are common at fires. Idle firefighters, waiting for equipment, can activate the noise after 30 seconds of inactivity. No one pays much attention until the bird-like sounds turn into a 95-decibel continuous piercing shriek. That can signal real trouble. ``If someone's device sounds nonstop for more than seven seconds, all the other men are supposed to drop everything and go to the sound,'' Grant says. The Tombstone probies are in charge of checking each air pack to make sure that it is filled with oxygen, that the battery in the PASS device is strong, and that the device itself works. ``We trust the probies completely,'' says Grant, who is a 16-year veteran of the New York City Fire Department. ``When they get out of the academy, they are programmed to check the equipment thoroughly. We know we are in good hands.'' (EDITORS: There is no charge for use of this story, but please send a tearsheet to Professor Stephen D. Isaacs, Columbia News Service, Graduate School of Journalism, Columbia University, 2950 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10027.) 
