Not Quite Magnolia Q. I've been told that the magnolia trees we have in New York City aren't true magnolias, that is, M. grandiflora, but are tulip trees, or tulip magnolias. My understanding is that the tall tulip trees without fragrant white or pink waxy blossoms belong to a different genus, Liriodendron. Can you please clarify this issue? A. Once again, the joys and confusions of common names. Liriodendron tulipifera is called both tulip magnolia and tulip tree. It is a member of the same family as magnolia (Magnoliaceae) but not the same genus (Magnolia). It's a relative, but it isn't a magnolia the way Magnolia grandiflora, the Southern magnolia, is a magnolia. That's all right, though, because another of its common names is tulip poplar, and it isn't a poplar either. But it is a worthy tree in its own right. It can be seen at the New York Botanical Garden, which has an allee of mature tulip trees leading up to the library building. Assuming no more heat waves, they should be displaying their yellow blooms by midmonth. . What is most often seen growing in New York is Magnolia x soulangiana, the saucer magnolia. Saucer because once the flowers open, they form a large, saucerlike cup. I think your friend is calling them tulip magnolias because of the shape the petals form before the flower opens. At that point the pink and white flower buds do resemble a tulip. Saucer magnolias are grown all over the North, mostly because they are hardy to Zone 4. The flowers, however, are another story. Because they bloom early, you can count on frost damage blasting the buds once or twice every three or four years, depending on how sheltered the site is. One thing that can be said for blooming early is that they are in bloom around the time most people are rummaging through garden centers looking for something to buy. At garden centers, what's in bloom is what sells. What's French About Them? Q. I often buy French tulips at the florist. In my bulb catalogs I never see a category called French tulips. Can you give me a source for them? A. The Royal General Bulbgrowers' Association in the Netherlands recognizes 15 groups of tulips, but French isn't one of them. The tulips you want are not French natives but more like imported laborers. They are Dutch-produced bulbs grown in southern France (also Northern California) for the cut-flower industry. The most prominent are Avignon, Menton, Maureen, Renown and John T. Scheepers. Others, including some with French names like Dordogne and La Courtine, are also grown for the trade, but to a lesser extent. All of them are in the tulip group Single Late, although most Single Late tulips aren't considered French. What these tulips share are very long strong stems, very large shapely flowers, very good vase life and very healthy profit margins along their travels from Dutch bulb fields to French flower fields to florist. ``French tulip'' seems to have more cachet than ``California tulip'' or ``Dutch tulip.'' The growing environments and the way the bulbs are treated produce these beauties earlier and larger than elsewhere. In catalogs, you can find Single Late tulips, including some with French names, that are not grown for the trade. They are all good garden performers, but as with backyard grapes, you may not get quite the same results. Sources for these cultivated varieties of tulips include John Scheepers, PO Box 638, Bantam, Conn. 06750, (860) 567-0838, www.johnscheepers.com; Brent and Becky's Bulbs, 7463 Heath Trail, Gloucester, Va. 23061, www.brentandbeckysbulbs.com, (877) 661-2852; and McClure &AMP; Zimmerman, P.O. Box 368, Friesland, Wis. 53935, (800) 883-6998, www.mzbulb.com. All offer free catalogs. Address questions to: Garden Q&AMP;A The New York Times 229 W. 43rd St. New York, N.Y. 10036 or by e-mail to: gardening(at)nytimes.com. Those of general interest will be published. Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. 
