SALMON FUND-RAISER WAS BLAST FROM THE PAST(a) (For use by N.Y. Times News Service clients)(a) By CHIP SCUTARI(a) c.2002 The Arizona Republic(a) (PHOENIX) - Impeached Gov. Evan Mecham and fallen financier Charles H Keating Jr. showed up at a recent Matt Salmon fund-raiser, but a spokesman for the Republican gubernatorial candidate said the two men weren't invited and have no connection to the campaign. ``They came on their own,'' spokesman Vernon Parker said. ``We support the right of all Arizona citizens to come to any event, but we had no idea they were coming.'' About 30 people attended the April 17 fund-raiser at the Mesa Country Club, a $125-a-plate affair. Salmon is considered the Republican front-runner for the Sept. 10 primary, according to recent polls. Mecham said he was invited to the function, but the Salmon campaign said Mecham must have heard about it by word of mouth. Nonetheless, the former governor touted Salmon's candidacy. ``I told Matt to straighten the state out, to undo all the damage that's been done ever since they kicked me out of office,'' Mecham said. ``Matt has integrity. That's quite unique in politics.'' Republican Secretary of State Betsey Bayless, who is battling Salmon for the GOP nomination, said she recalls Mecham's insensitive comments toward women. ``It does not surprise me that he is supporting Matt,'' said Bayless, who left her post as director of the Department of Administration soon after Mecham became governor. ``It has been widely reported how he feels about me and women in general. I do not want to take the state of Arizona back to the days of Charlie Keating and Evan Mecham.'' Mecham, meanwhile, is pondering a run for a seat in the state Senate from his Glendale district. Mecham, who served less than 15 months in office, has called a handful of state legislators looking for advice. ``I just told him that he'd have good name identification,'' said Sen. Scott Bundgaard, a Glendale Republican. ``He's a constituent of mine. He called a few months ago.'' Mecham's tenure as governor was marked by a string of gaffes that turned more serious when it was revealed that Mecham failed to disclose a $350,000 campaign loan. ``I've discussed running with a few people,'' Mecham said. ``I'll make my decision with in a couple of weeks.'' In 1990, Salmon defeated a Mecham-backed candidate, Jerry Gillespie, for a state Senate seat to begin his political career. Keating's appearance may be more surprising because, Salmon said, they'd never met before the event. Keating didn't return calls for comment. After building Continental Homes and later American Continental Corp. into the state's largest home builder, Keating's empire collapsed. The Lincoln Savings &AMP; Loan went under in 1989 in a scandal that cost taxpayers $3.4 billion and left investors, including many California retirees, an estimated $285 million in losses on high-risk bonds. The Salmon campaign said it has not taken any contributions from Mecham or Keating. 
