Two days after Florida officials disclosed that the state had lost a Miami girl in its custody _ and had not noticed for more than a year _ the girl's mother, a former crack addict, said the authorities took no better care of her daughter than she had. The mother, Gloria Wilson, 28, said in a telephone interview from her home in East Cleveland, Ohio, that the Florida Department of Children and Families had not contacted her about the disappearance of her daughter, Rilya. ``I'm really upset because I don't understand how the system could lose a child for over 15 months and not notify the biological family at all,'' Wilson said. Wilson, whose parental rights have been terminated, said the woman who was caring for Rilya and two siblings was not their grandmother, as reported earlier, but rather Rilya's godmother. Wilson said that the woman was the mother of a friend she had met in Narcotics Anonymous in Miami, and that she had not been in contact with her for several years. A state official identified the woman as Geraldine Graham and said she had continued to receive state checks for caring for Rilya after the girl disappeared. Graham could not be reached for comment. State officials declined to discuss Wilson but said they believed that the woman with whom Rilya was living when she disappeared was a relative. Officials began looking for the girl, who would now be 5, last week after discovering that the state agency and her guardian had somehow lost track of her. Officials said they realized that Rilya was missing only after a caseworker tried to check on her and did not find her at the guardian's house. The agency and the guardian apparently each thought the other had custody of Rilya, who was 4 when she disappeared. The agency blamed the counselor in charge of Rilya's case and a supervisor, both of whom quit last month under pressure for what the department said was the mishandling of another case. In Rilya's case, the agency said, the caseworker, Deborah Muskelly, had been filing false reports of monthly visits with the girl. A supervisor, Willie Harris, was supposed to review the case file but did not do that, the agency said. ``The case work, there is no doubt, was abysmal,'' said Kathleen Kearney, secretary of Children and Families. ``For that I take full responsibility, But, Kearney added, ``These two individuals clearly failed this child.'' Neither of the former employees could be reached Wednesday. Wilson said she lived on Social Security disability benefits and was trying to arrange for transportation to Miami to cooperate with the investigation. The police said neither Wilson nor the woman who looked after the children was a suspect because the case was a missing person inquiry, not a criminal investigation. Wilson said she did not know where the child's father was and did not know what happened to her. Wilson said she had lived in Miami for most of her life but moved in 1999 to be near family so she could restart her life free of drugs. Wilson said Rilya's name was proof that, despite her failings, she cared for the girl. ``The letters in her name mean `remember I love you always,''' Wilson said. 
