Everyone is headed to Louisville this weekend in search of a special Derby moment: the lucky bettor who picks the winner, the jockey who rides the winner, the person who owns the winner. They're all part of the grand mosaic called the Kentucky Derby. I've already had my moment. That electric moment occurred when Yvonne Azeff walked to the phone earlier this week and said in a strong, clear voice, ``Hello.'' When I told her how great it was to hear her voice, she said, ``It's good to be around and be talking.'' Last year at this time, Azeff was reveling in the joy of reaching a horse racing mountaintop. As assistant trainer for John Ward, she watched as Monarchos, the big gray horse, won the Kentucky Derby. Outside of watching her brother get married, she said, watching Monarchos was the biggest thing that had happened to her. We met a couple weeks later in Baltimore at Pimlico Race Course. Azeff's mother, Barbara Barnhill, who had worked as a hot walker and a groom, talked with understandable pride about her daughter's passion for horses, how she had followed her mother's footsteps in the racing business, how driven and determined Yvonne was to succeed. Eight months later, on Jan. 26, Azeff's life turned upside down. During training hours at Gulfstream Park in Hallandale, Fla., Azeff was accompanying a racehorse back from the track when the pony she was riding was spooked. The pony reared, and she was thrown and pinned underneath it. Azeff, who was not wearing a helmet, suffered brain trauma and was in a coma for about seven weeks. She breathed with the help of a machine. Her mother was at the hospital every day. Even after her daughter regained consciousness, Barnhill made the four-and-a-half drive on Thursday nights and stayed through Sunday. Last week, when doctors cleared her to leave, Azeff's mother accompanied her to Louisville and helped Azeff settle in her home. ``It's been a long go and it was hard,'' Barnhill said. ``She's a really self-motivated person, she's really, really strong and really focused on healing.'' Azeff, 41, has lost some of her memory. Names and numbers she used to rattle off without thinking have to be looked up. What she remembers, what she'll always remember, is Monarchos' Derby victory last May. As part of her therapy, her mother put pictures of Monarchos around the hospital room. One showed Azeff galloping Monarchos at Churchill Downs, another showed Monarchos streaking across the finish line. The pictures became her inspiration. ``Monarchos brought me through a lot,'' she said. ``The great thing about the gray horse is that he gave you the best he had, every day,'' she said. ``I'm trying to do the same thing. I'm trying to do the very best I can every day.'' When you consider Azeff's condition immediately after the accident, her rehabilitation is just short of miraculous. Her speech is a beat slower but clear and precise; she has difficulty walking but keeps making significant progress. She will move from using a walker to a cane next week. Her motivation throughout rehab in Florida was to get home in time for Derby Week. ``I told my doctor I had to hurry up and get home, I had to be home for the Derby,'' she said. ``I told him: `I got to go, it's important. You don't understand what Louisville's like at Derby time.''' The only memory Azeff has of the accident is what she has been told. What happened to her is part of the racing life. ``Like I told my mom, it's part of the assumed risk,'' she said. ``If you're going to ride horses, every time you throw a leg over you take a chance of getting hurt. But because it's what we do, and because we've done it so long, you don't think about it. ``The funny part is, I've made a living getting on everybody's bad horses and breaking babies and all kind of stuff without any helmet or vest on. Here I am on a lead pony with my vest on, and no helmet that day, 'cause it was a lead pony and I'm not galloping the horses. And who expects to get hurt, and I end up getting the injury of a lifetime.'' Azeff went to Keeneland in Lexington, Ky., for the first time since the accident last Saturday; her special Derby moment will come on Friday when she goes to Claiborne Farm and visits Monarchos. Azeff never imagined the horse could mean more to her than he did last May, but he does. ``I can appreciate now how rare winning the Derby is, and how hard he tried on the right day,'' she said. ``It makes me realize how hard I'm going to have to try.'' I wondered if Azeff wanted to tackle the Derby this year. The electricity and the race might be energizing but taxing. ``I may just watch it from home, have friends come over and watch,'' she said. ``Or we might go on over to Churchill Downs and watch on the big screen. Another friend is cooking and we may end up going over there to watch it.'' There's nothing easy about any of this. Azeff works with three therapists every day _ a speech therapist, an occupational therapist and a physical therapist. Physical therapy is the hardest. ``The therapist is very challenging,'' she said. ``I like to be pushed and he will do it. He messes with my balance all the time, and my walking. But that's good. `` She was in bed for 90 days and lost muscle tone in places she had never even thought about. ``There is soreness, stiffness, there's not real pain,'' she said. There's also no fear. Someone said that progress often depended on anesthetizing the past. In Azeff's case, this is true. Azeff plans to be back in the saddle, training horses. She is not intimidated or afraid. ``I don't remember anything to be afraid of,'' she said. ``I just want to ride again; I can't wait to get back on my pony.'' Everyone is looking for their Derby moment. I've already had mine hearing Azeff's strong voice, and everything else is gravy. 
