Hot Topic built a fashion empire by listening to its customers' music. Now, it's growing that empire by listening to their voices. Responding to an overwhelming demand from its hipster shoppers, the eclectic retailer unveiled Torrid last year, a boutique chain targeting plus-size young women in six markets. The response was overwhelming, and now the Torrid name is being introduced to 15 new markets today, including the Northridge Fashion Center, Los Angeles' only location. That same customer input that brings in Weezer and Sum 41 T-shirts, she said, also brought on the idea for Torrid, as shoppers voiced the need for plus-size clothing. After reading a slew of customer comments, President and Chief Executive Officer Betsy McLaughlin began exploring ways to accommodate larger sizes. ``We realized there was no place for a junior customer size 14 or larger to buy hip, fashion-forward clothing,'' McLaughlin said. ``She could shop at Lane Bryant and look like her mom, shop at a department store and look like her grandmother or buy men's clothes and look like her father.'' And since Pops and Grandma usually aren't the most desirable trendsetters for the juniors set, she figured Torrid could creep in. Occupying 3,299 square feet and outfitted with unusual flame designs intended to mirror a woman's curves, the store resembles a toned-down version of its funky older sister Hot Topic. The chain, headquartered in the City of Industry, prides itself on remaining in tune with its young shoppers. Financial analysts praise the extremely close customer-employee-management relationship as unique in the retail business, which has allowed Hot Topic to grow to place 340 stores in 48 states and still adds at a clip of 50 stores a year. Each store's workers remain in contact with the corporate office, and closely followed customer response forms allow for direct shopper input, read personally by McLaughlin. Following customer requests, Hot Topic sent out feelers, offering plus sizes on its Web site and bringing in vinyl pants in size 15 -- they immediately sold out. From there, the chain introduced larger dresses, hosiery and sizes up to 20. Rabid customer demand led McLaughlin to assess the need for a separate store, which launched six test stores. If the widespread test is a success, analysts predict as many as 300 additional stores in coming years. ``This business is one of the key ingredients to growth in the company,'' said Eric Beder, retail analyst for the New York-based investment bank Ladenburg Thalmann &AMP; Co. Inc. ``There's no one really in that space right now. If they can show that it works, it becomes another major growth driver. But that's a big what if?'' Given the firm's shrewd assessment of the marketplace in the past, however, those familiar with the firm's stock are upbeat. According to Marcia Aaron, a senior analyst with Pacific Growth Equities in San Francisco, the demographic has been underexplored. By her research, 50 percent of women shoppers prefer a size 14 or larger, while most chains focus only on sizes 12 and under. ``Right now, it's small, but it will be big in the long term,'' Aaron said. ``It could be larger than Hot Topic, because it crosses many more demographics. It attracts more segments of the teen market, because Hot Topic is very specific lifestyle. They really try to see what the trends are at Wet Seal and Bebe for what the customer wants -- she wants the same things her skinny friends are wearing.'' Contrary to fashion ads, Brian Tunick, a retail analyst for Bear Stearns, thinks a vast swath of the buying public has been unserved, creating an instant niche for Torrid. ``This customer segment has never really had a store just for them,'' he said. ``This is their chance to wear the hottest fashions in their size. The company didn't push this onto their customers, the customers pulled it onto themselves.'' To cultivate a hip following, the product lineup has established brand names, such as Paris Blues and Dickies. No elastic waistbands, no garish, skirted swimwear and definitely, definitely no muumuus. ``I would have killed for this store 17 years ago,'' said Mary Barker, the Northridge store's manager. ``When I found cute and flattering clothing, I had to buy two pairs to wear until they fell apart.'' Barker, an attractive size 18, was once stuck shopping in the back of department stores, wearing clothes that made her feel far beyond her 37 years. She steered the San Diego test spot through its opening, where the store's popularity led even nonplus-sized customers to request the clothes. ``We get an emotional response,'' she said. ``We're not just selling clothes, we're really empowering people.'' 
