Hoochie pants are causing skin problems, career women are doomed to be childless and the most powerful woman in government is quitting her job to be with her family. Men are to blame. Let's start with Karen Hughes. Hughes is a native Texan, a wife, a mother and President George W. Bush's closest and most trusted adviser. Access is power, according to a Washington aphorism. Hughes' access to Bush, and her influence on his decisions, is unparalleled. She's been Bush's closest friend, adviser, counselor and handler for years. Hughes guided Bush through his years as Texas governor, his campaign to win the Republican nomination and his tightly fought battle to become the nation's 43rd president. Despite her no-knock White House access to the most powerful leader on the planet, Hughes said that she was giving up her position-to-die-for so she can return to Texas and spend more time with her husband and 15-year-old son. Hughes' announcement followed on the heels of a new book by Sylvia Ann Hewlett titled Creating a Life: Professional Women and the Quest for Children. Hewlett's book documented an ``epidemic'' of childlessness among career women who put off having children until it is too late. The book spawned a Time magazine article about babies vs. careers and the harsh realities career women must confront. A ``60 Minutes'' segment, newspaper stories, columns and talk-show chatter soon followed. An indignant undertone in all this buzz indicated a need to find someone, or something, to blame. Harvard Business School women told Lesley Stahl of ``60 Minutes'' that eligible men were frightened off by their intellects. Similar observations were made by other women who felt men avoided relationships with smart, competitive women. New York Times columnist Maureen Dowd wrote that a man told her that men would avoid her because they were concerned that she would be too critical. Many men are avoiding marriage, which means women have difficulty finding a mate needed to raise a child in a nurturing family. Career women who do marry find their husbands refuse to share housekeeping and child-rearing chores while their bosses refuse to provide child-care. Karen Hughes' choice to chuck her powerful career position prompted a new round of blame assignment. Boston Globe columnist Ellen Goodman blames Hughes' sellout to the cause on Bush, a man who failed to make the White House family-friendly. In her May 2 column, Goodman skewers Hughes as a 5-foot-10 woman with size 12 shoes who spins Bush family-friendly disinformation like a prima ballerina. Bush, according to Goodman, put Hughes in a killer job. ``And nobody blames the boss.'' San Francisco Chronicle columnist Laurel Wellman tells about women having to pay up to $75 for a beauty treatment called a Derriere Decollete due to chapping and wind burn caused by skin exposed to the elements caused by wearing skin-tight, low-slung hoochie pants. Why do women wear clothes skimpy enough to cause skin conditions? Wellman quotes a research psychologist who blames it on the marriage market. Women wear hoochie pants and provocative clothes when there aren't enough marriageable men to go around. Men are to blame. That should be obvious. What they don't botch with their actions, men bungle with their inactions. Rowland Nethaway is senior editor of the Waco (Texas) Tribune-Herald. E-mail: RNethaway(at) wacotrib.com Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
