ATLANTA - Investors shopped among bargain-priced stocks on Wednesday, buying enough ``old economy'' companies to push the Dow Jones industrial average back above 10,000. Share prices had dropped sharply over the past two months under a constant barrage of disappointing earnings news, Middle East political tension and reports of questionable accounting. Cyclical stocks _ the kind that perform well in an economic recovery _ have paced the market's latest upturn, which on Wednesday focused on the auto industry. General Motors (GM) beat its April sales forecasts and announced plans to increase production. Daimler Chrysler AG (DCX) also posted an upbeat sales report. Other blue-chip winners included Procter &AMP; Gamble (PG), Wall-Mart Stores (WMT), Coca-Cola (KO), Merck (MRK) and Exxon Mobil (XOM). The technology sector was hurt by a report from Dell Computer (DELL) that the PC maker is not experiencing a rebound in sales. Sun Microsystems (SUNW), a computer server maker, announced that its president and chief operating officer, Ed Zander, is retiring from full-time duties. Economic reports on U.S. manufacturing and construction indicated that the momentum of economic recovery is slowing. In the first quarter, gross domestic product had expanded at a surprising 5.8 percent annual rate, a pace economists said would not hold up very long. Economic news for the rest of the week focuses on the job market. Today's reports are on unemployment claims for the week ended April 27 and on March factory orders. The April unemployment rate and job growth figures are due for release on Friday. Wednesday's uptick in trading is not unusual, given the market's recent slide. Part of the buying was attributed to investors who sold short moving back in to buy their shares. Short selling is when an investor sells borrowed stock expecting the price to decline so it can be repurchased at a profit. When the market moves up instead, many of these sort sellers cut their losses by repurchasing their shares early. That's one reason strategists are reluctant to put too much stock in a rally of a few days, or even a week. Given the market's current uncertanties over earnings, the Middle East and various accounting investigations, most forecasts are hedged with caution. In Wednesday's trading the Dow dropped as much as 115 points early in the session. But a late rally boosted the blue-chip index to a close of 10,059.63, up 113.41 points, or 1.1 percent. Standard &AMP; Poor's 500-stock index rose by 9.54 points, or 0.9 percent, to 1,086.46. But the tech-driven Nasdaq composite index fell 10.70 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,677.53. Tom Walker writes for The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
