Here are the stories New York Times editors are planning for Page 1, Thursday, May 2. The night supervisor for The New York Times News Service is Pat Ryan; phone: 888-346-9867 or 212-556-1927; e-mail: patryan(at)nytimes.com. 	TOP 	Lede story: 	The story runs under a 4-column hed and photo. 	MIDEAST (Ramallah, West Bank) _ A ledeall: Israeli troops and tanks moved out of Ramallah early Wednesday morning, liberating Yasser Arafat from a month-long siege in his humbled compound here, after a convoy of U.S. and British vehicles removed six men wanted by Israel and carried them to a Palestinian prison in Jericho. By James Bennet and David Rohde. (We plan to move the story by 9 p.m. ET in ``i'' news file.) 	With photos, NYT11-14, and a map. 	Off-lead story: 	AFGHAN (Khost, Afghanistan) _ In the past three weeks, 600 specially trained Afghan troops have joined dozens _ sometimes hundreds _ of U.S. and British commandos in six raids on Qaida hideouts. But while a trove of weapons and ammunition has been seized in these operations, not a single Qaida soldier has been killed, and only two suspects have been taken into custody. By Barry Bearak. (Scheduled to move by 8:30 p.m. ET in ``i'' news file.) 1,500 words. 	FOLD 	GORE-LIEBERMAN (Walla Walla, Wash.) _ A Political Memo: Al Gore is back in full force on the campaign trail. So is Joe Lieberman. The problem is, they both want to be president. A look at the awkward relationship between the two, how they are positioning themselves for 2002 and, more importantly, for 2004. By Richard L. Berke. (Scheduled to move by 9 p.m. ET in ``w'' news file.) 1,400 words. 	WTC-FEMA (New York) _ The director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency promises members of the New York congressional delegation that the agency will immediately re-open more than 7,000 applications for housing assistance that the agency has denied since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks ``to ensure that all eligible cases are assisted.'' By Diana B. Henriques. (Scheduled to move by 9:30 p.m. ET in ``a'' news file.) 	RAC-DERBY (Louisville, Ky.) _ A full field of 20 horses is expected for the 128th Kentucky Derby on Saturday, and at approximately 6:07 p.m. one of them will amble into the most famous winners' circle in America. But if recent history is a guide, the Derby winner will not last long in the nation's sports consciousness, and enthusiasm over the annual quest for a Triple Crown champion will give way to a familiar summertime lament: Where have all the great horses gone? The answer is to the commercial breeding shed where the prospect of millions of dollars has lured potential superstars from the racetrack. By Joe Drape. (Scheduled to move by 9 p.m. ET in ``s'' news file.) 1,600 words. 	BOTTOM 	WTC-SCHOOL-CHILDREN (New York) _ Tens of thousands of public school children in New York City are experiencing chronic nightmares, fear of public places, severe anxiety and other mental health problems in the wake of the World Trade Center attack, a study conducted for the Board of Education has found. School officials say the study provides the most comprehensive look ever at the psychological impact of a major disaster on school children. By Abby Goodnough. (Scheduled to move by 9:30 p.m. ET in ``a'' news file.) 1,500 words. 	3-column photo reefer to: FRANCE-PROTESTS; the story has moved. 	INSIDE STORY PROMOTED ON PAGE 1: 	MISSING-GIRL (Kansas City) _ Almost exactly a year ago, the nude, decapitated body of an unidentified girl was found in Kansas City. The police launched one of their most extensive investigations ever. The community, which named her Precious Doe, was haunted by the case. Now her identity may be known as police wait to see whether she is a Florida girl who was recently discovered to have been been missing for 15 months, even though state officials were supposed to be monitoring her whereabouts. By Jody Wilgoren and Dana Canedy. (Scheduled to move by 8 p.m. ET in ``a'' news file.) 	(Editors: All clients receive all budgets, but only full-service clients receive all stories. Please check your level of service to determine which stories you will receive.) 
