By TANYA SCHEVITZ c.2002 SAN FRANCISCO CHRONICLE SAN FRANCISCO _ At the direction of President Bush, White House officials have been meeting behind closed doors to debate an anti-terrorism policy that would keep some foreign students from studying ``sensitive'' academic subjects. Universities say such a policy would threaten academic freedom and the core of the university mission. ``Open universities are a basic freedom that distinguish us from some of the places we are in combat with now, and we don't want to give that up,'' said Sarah Flanagan, vice president of the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities. ``That is giving in.'' The meetings, directed by officials from the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy with representatives from other federal agencies, are in response to the president's call in October for sweeping changes in U.S. immigration law. He wants to make some yet-undefined academic areas off limits to ``certain international students.'' It may turn out that the government won't meddle in campus curricula, but the vagueness and secrecy has made college and university representatives particularly anxious. ``We still don't have much of an idea of what they are talking about doing,'' said Victor Johnson, associate executive director of policy for NAFSA: Association of International Educators. Kathryn Harrington, spokeswoman for the science policy office, said that the details were still being worked out and that a report was expected in the next week or so. She said the White House valued the contribution of foreign students and would seek university suggestions before implementing anything. But most educators warn that the government should focus on security at the nation's borders rather than at individual university campuses. Flanagan said it would be impossible to determine where the line should be drawn to categorize a course or field as sensitive. Even what is taught in one course can vary between professors. ``If there are people that the government thinks should not study certain subjects because of who they are, they should not be let into this country in the first place,'' Johnson said. ``Walling off parts of the university for certain students wouldn't work for us.'' Colleges and universities teach information that is in the public domain and readily available to people around the world in libraries and through the Internet, he said. ``The same stuff that becomes engines for economic growth is also the same technology that could be used against you,'' Flanagan said. ``Who would have thought that training pilots would be dangerous?'' Foreign students have been a focus of security concerns since Sept. 11 because at least one of the hijackers was in the country on a student visa. But educators say that virtually all foreign students are here for legitimate academic reasons and that restricting them could have a devastating effect on the nation's institutions. During the 1999-2000 academic year, 514,723 foreign students _ approximately 3.8 percent of the total enrollment _ were studying for degrees at U.S. institutions and brought $12.3 billion into the domestic economy. An international graduate student in engineering at UC Berkeley, who was afraid to be identified for fear of attracting the government's attention, called the racial profiling and stereotyping of foreign students an insult. ``Basically, it is saying that if you are a student from the Middle East studying engineering, you will go back home and make a bomb,'' the student said. ``For me, this is a war on education and on immigrant and international students' rights.'' UC Santa Cruz Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood spoke out against a restrictive policy at a meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in April and said Wednesday that the government should be cautious in imposing any restrictions on curriculum. ``The onus is on the government to demonstrate that this would improve security,'' Greenwood said. ``I don't know of any case where a student admitted to a research university has been involved in any security breach.'' Professor Christos Papadimitriou, associate chairman of the Computer Science Department at UC Berkeley, is concerned about the suggestion that certain students may be weeded out. ``There is no way that we can restrict our courses so that only American students or students from certain countries that think the right way can study,'' he said. ``This is impossible to implement, destructive for the academic tradition and against the interests of the U.S.'' He said that one-third of his department's graduate students and one-fifth of his undergraduates were international students and that they were the future backbone of academia. Forty percent of his faculty members are foreign-born. If they are restricted to certain fields, international students will just go to Great Britain, Germany or Australia, leaving the United States without their vital intellectual contributions, said Yenbo Wu, San Francisco State University's director of international programs. ``If you do this, you are not allowing this group of very talented people to have access to the knowledge,'' Wu said. ``For many, many years, our advancement in science and technology has relied on talent from around the world.'' Educators said the government should work instead on implementing a long-planned electronic tracking system in which the government will be notified when students move or switch majors after they enter the country. There is also an existing State Department program called Mantis, which is supposed to flag visa applicants who want to study subjects on a technology watch list, such as nuclear engineering, conventional munitions and lasers. ``We need to review the Mantis system to stop people with evil intentions before they get here,'' said Terry Hartle, senior vice president of the American Council on Education. ``But once people are on campus, we treat everyone the same. We could put a guard at the door of every science course, but it would probably have a rather chilling effect on the campus.'' 
