Deaths, injuries, and illnesses on the job are happening too frequently in the United States despite annual workplace safety efforts. Nearly 6,000 workers were killed from traumatic injuries and more than 6.3 million suffered other injuries or illnesses on the job in 2000, the most recent year data was available from the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics. Last year, 122 Massachusetts workers died because of workplace injuries or illnesses, according to the Massachusetts Coalition for Occupational Safety and Health, a group of union and health activists dedicated to improving safety in the workplace. Every year, the AFL-CIO and other labor organizations sponsor a National Workers Memorial Day to stress the need for increased job safety. The theme of this year's Workers Memorial Day, observed last Friday in the Bay State, was President Bush's proposed budget cuts for fiscal year 2003. The Bush administration has proposed cutting $9 million and 83 positions from the government's key health and safety agency, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. Democrats and labor organizations argue that these reductions are aimed at safety and health standards, enforcement, training, and education. At the same time, the administration is proposing increases in the budget for assisting employers in complying with current rules. In addition, the administration has proposed cutting $28.3 million from the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health budget, reducing it to $258.3 million. NIOSH, Democrats point out, is the only health research agency that focuses on worker health and safety. Yet, they add, the administration is seeking major budget increases for homeland security aimed at protecting the public from bioterrorist attacks. As one report put it, ``No funds are being sought for OSHA or NIOSH to protect workers from these threats, even though workers were the main victims of the Sept. 11 and anthrax attacks.'' The Bush administration has been criticized by Democrats and labor activists for repealing OSHA's new ergonomics standard last year. As they noted, this standard was 10 years in the making and would have prevented hundreds of thousands of workplace injuries each year. Massachusetts workers in particular have a higher rate of back injuries and repetitive strain injuries than workers in the rest of the nation. For example, in all industries across the nation, there are 62.9 such disorders per 10,000 workers; Massachusetts has 84.2 disorders for every 10,000 workers. The difference is even starker in the transportation and public utilities industries, where it's 110.6 disorders per 10,000 workers nationwide, while Massachusetts reports 183.6 disorders per 10,000 workers. These injuries are not only painful but expensive, at a national cost of more than $50 billion annually, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Another measure of the cost of occupational deaths and injuries comes from a report released last year by Liberty Mutual Insurance, the nation's largest workers' compensation insurance company. Liberty Mutual said that businesses pay between $155 billion and $232 billion annually in direct and indirect costs to workers' compensation. For the rest of this year, worker safety activists both nationally and locally are pushing for a new federal ergonomics standard to protect workers from these injuries, demanding that OSHA use its rules to cite and fine employers in workplaces where crippling injuries are occurring and educate workers about ergonomic hazards. The Bush administration should think of the consequences of the proposed cuts in the OSHA and NIOSH budgets, since both workers and employers have a huge stake _ and a price to pay _ for these deaths and injuries. Robert A. Jordan can be reached at bjordan(at)globe.com. 
