It is a ballad more than a novel, and on an old music-hall theme. A London slum girl is glimpsed by an aging aristocrat who marries her, elevating her to luxury and privilege. Caged luxury, caged privilege, and when she seeks to follow her heart to freedom: disgrace and destruction. There are some piquant differences in ``The Emperor's Babe,'' though, and hurray for them. For one thing, the slum girl belongs to a dark-skinned immigrant family, like the hundreds of thousands from the third world who have settled in Britain to irk its sense of national identity with their own version of the empire striking back. For another, the story takes place in A.D. 211, with a Roman as the arrogant aristocrat. He is a rich senator (``I've just bought Hertfordshire, you know''), and his child bride is the daughter of a poor shopkeeper who made his struggling way from Khartoum to the empire's opposite end. Finally, and perhaps most important, Bernardine Evaristo, half Nigerian and half English, has written the novel in springy, street-smart verse that swings between sour-apple satire, sweet-corn sentiment and, from time to time, lines of piercing lyricism. What the verse does is oddly similar to what drawings do in graphic novels: in the works of Ben Katchor, for instance, or in Art Spiegelman's ``Maus.'' They seem to project a backlighting, a resonance in perspective, upon the head-on words of the narration. It is akin to the supplemental visual messages we receive when someone addresses us: the pain in the eyes, the stressed corners of the mouth. Tough and vulnerable is a cliche, but not when the heroine of ``Babe,'' Zuleika, introduces herself in her characteristic stretch of verbal country, ranging all the way from Cockney to macaronic Latin: Oh, everyone envied me, Illa Bella Negreeta! born in the back of a shop on Gracechurch Street, who got hitched to a Roman nobleman, whose parents sailed out of Khartoum on a barge, no burnished throne, no poop of beaten gold, but packed with vomiting brats ... She goes on to tell of her betrothal at 11 to Lucius Aurelius Felix, and her incessant tutoring in proper Latin and aristocratic manners, until: Zuleika accepta est. Zuleika delicata est. Zuleika bloody goody-two shoes est. She describes her husband, ``a man thrice my age and thrice my girth,'' who, when he makes love, ``spills over me like dough.'' Couldn't a pastry cook be called to trim off the edges? she wonders. Felix is away in Rome most of the year, leaving Zuleika under the watchful eyes of the servants, spies for her husband. She gets out occasionally to meet two pals from the old days: Alba, herself risen from the streets to marry a lower-caste Roman, and Venus, a transvestite. Their confidences sag ahead 2,000 years into contemporary cliche; by invigorating contrast, there is Zuleika's evocation of the streets of her childhood. The author works an ethnic savor into the vital life that can bloom, then as now, in the seeming depths of city squalor. We'd play Knock-Down-Ginger, throw stones, break windows, then leg it down an alley outa-sight, arrive home breathless and itching with flea bites and jigger-foot. What with the alfresco sewerage running between paving stones, now in my neighborhood, summer evenings were spiced, trout fried on stalls, fresh out of the Thames, you could eat air ... As in a ballad, Zuleika's chill immuring is dispelled by a brief, ultimately fatal love. The emperor Septimius Severus arrives in London on his way to subdue Scotland. With her husband away, Zuleika dons her high-Roman glad rags to attend the theater. Her glance meets the emperor's, and both combust. They feast together. Evaristo lays it on thick: the couches, the silks, the music, the dormice in honey, the bear cutlets, the flamingo tongues. The lovemaking that follows is equally lavish, set out in language that would make a romance paperback blush for sheer stylistic embarrassment. His black eyes follow the slope of her shoulders; his bristles scratch her delicate skin. ``Are you ready for war?'' he trumpets, and they set martially to. ``Stab me to death, soldier,'' she cries, and as he obliges, ``my temples drip into my ears.'' It is comic, it is inflamed and it is, in a sense, a game. Not the love-making nor the post-coital tenderness and dueling that follow, but the language Zuleika uses to tell of them. She, like her creator, is a poet. She, unlike her creator, is a prisoner. When nightingales are caged, they may sing, and the song may sound the same, but the effect changes to plaint or protest. Zuleika's account is first-rate florid. Bravo! we think: pure coloratura. What speaks under it is graver. For one thing, between the night bouts there is the emperor's day job. He invites Zuleika on a barge ride down the Thames to watch the gladiators in Greenwich. Instead of the expected snogging session, love takes a back seat to protocol. A back barge, that is: Zuleika is relegated to it while the imperial craft glides far ahead. There is Septimius' departure for his fatal campaign in the north. ``You/have/murdered me/you bastard/you have/died/at/York,'' she cries out when she gets the news that will undo her. A touch of George Bernard Shaw's self-centered Cleopatra with old Caesar _ because how else could a young woman survive? Quieter, and as affecting, there are interludes in the bed-work. Septimius tells of his weariness and wars, and Zuleika rehearses futile tactics for holding him beyond the moment. There is a flash of what is not futile, of the poet surviving the lover. Septimius asks her what she dreams of. She replies: ``To leave a whisper of myself in the world,/my ghost, a magna opera of words.'' PUBLICATION NOTES: `THE EMPEROR'S BABE' By Bernardine Evaristo 256 pages. Viking. $23.95. 
