Senator Orrin G. Hatch, who electrified the world of medical research by announcing this week that he supports a therapeutic form of human cloning, is riding the Capitol subway, clearly delighted that he may swing the vote by joining with Senator Edward M. Kennedy and other Democrats on such a controversial issue. As a conservative Republican and ardent foe of abortion, Hatch's action is the biotech industry's version of ``Nixon goes to China.'' As Hatch spread out his long legs in the under-sized subway, he said in a near-whisper: ``It was not a hard decision.'' Indeed, a close look at Hatch's record over the years shows the biotechnology industry had reason to be confident that Hatch would take its side. Just two years ago, 160 executives of the biotech industry gathered in Washington to name Hatch the nation's biotech ``legislator of the year.'' Hatch helped create the industry by pushing legislation during the 1990s that granted generous patents to biotech companies as well as millions of dollars of tax breaks. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry returned the favor, giving Hatch more money in campaign contributions in the 2000 cycle, $400,000, than to any other congressional candidate, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. ``In terms of the growth and development of the industry, he has certainly spearheaded those efforts and been a leader,'' said Michael Werner of the Biotech Industry Organization, the trade group that hailed Hatch as its legislator of the year in May 2000, as he was preparing his quixotic bid for the presidency. Late Thursday, the momentum from Hatch's announcement paid a dividend when Republican Senator Strom Thurmond of South Carolina announced he too would back the bill. Hatch says the decision to endorse therapeutic cloning is not about campaign contributions and other political considerations back in conservative Utah. Instead, he focuses on the seriously ill children he has often encountered. Hatch said that he has for years been driven by the memory of his work a medical malpractice defense lawyer and his time as a bishop in the Mormon Church. ``I saw a lot of suffering and a lot of difficulty,'' Hatch said. ``I have had to go to hospital after hospital to pray with people. This is a pro-life position.'' But Hatch, who last year endorsed stem cell research, also clearly has bought into the biotech industry's potential, sounding at times like a company leader pitching a product to Wall Street analysts. ``It's very important, not just in Utah, but look at Massachusetts,'' Hatch said. ``The whole biotech industry has written me a letter saying, `Gee, please do this.' With the great hospitals and great research institutions, it would be a shame if we bind the hand of those who might be able to bring these treatments and cures to our families.'' Then, in a statement that not all religious conservatives would embrace, the devout Mormon adds: ``True science is God's way of doing things. I believe we have these wonderful potentials because of true science.'' While Utah's biotech industry is much smaller than that in Massachusetts and California, it is making fast headway. Utah has about 35 biotech companies with 13,000 employees. Governor Mike Leavitt has said he wants the state, a leader in cancer research and gene mapping, to build up biotech. ``The biotech business is significant,'' said Utah Life Sciences Association president Brian Moss, who works closely with Hatch. ``It is a significant voter base, it is an intelligent and reasonably well paid voter base, so it is important politically as well. `` Dr. Stephen Prescott, president of Huntsman Cancer Institute in Utah, said he has spoken at length with Hatch about the issue and listened as the senator struggled with its moral dimensions. A few weeks ago, Prescott said, Hatch was ``physically in anguish'' when the senator grilled Prescott in a hallway for 20 minutes on the details of sexual reproduction, with Prescott seeking to convince Hatch to support therapeutic cloning. Prescott serves on the board of a North Carolina biotechnology company engaged in stem cell research. ``From one perspective, I have a conflict, but I'm on the opposite side of where you would predict,'' Prescott said, noting that the company works on adult stem cells, not the more controversial form derived from embryos. ``I took a very strong stance. My argument is that it is a promising technology.'' Hatch said in an interview that he found Prescott's argument compelling. With the House having already voted to ban all forms of cloning, the Senate is expected to vote within a few weeks on a bill co-sponsored by Hatch and Kennedy, the same odd couple that has frequently worked together on health and education legislation. The bill would ban the production of human ``carbon copies,'' but would allow cloning to derive stem cells medical research. Those cloned cells theoretically could regenerate a person's diseased organs; hence, the term ``therapeutic cloning.'' Hatch said he became convinced that a cloned cell, unlike a fetus, falls outside the definition of a human life because it is not inside a woman's womb and thus is not able to become a human. Hatch knows that with his anti-abortion credentials he could swing the vote in the Senate, which is controlled 50-49 by Democrats. Thurmond, who has a daughter with diabetes, Thursday described the Kennedy-Hatch bill as ``moral and ethical.'' Senator Arlen Specter, the Pennsylvania Republican, has also backed the bill. Other Republicans being lobbied for their support include the two Maine senators, Olympia Snowe and Susan Collins. Only one Democrat, Senator Mary Landrieu of Louisiana, supports a Republican-sponsored bill that would ban cloning, whether for therapeutic or reproductive purposes. Landrieu was just as emotional in an interview Thursday as Hatch was in his, saying the Utah senator's view is ``like legalizing the growth of marijuana but saying you can't smoke it. Under this bill, you can produce life, experiment with it and destroy it, but you can't implant it. That is impossible to enforce.'' Asked why she thinks Hatch and others are backing the bill, she characterized them as allies of the biotech business. ``There are a lot of big heavily financed biotech companies that want minimal rules,'' Landrieu said. ``They believe that science is God. I could not disagree with that statement more.'' Hatch says he has heard the skeptics before. Few believed him, he said, when he suggested during the early 1990s that passage of the Orphan Drug Act, which provides tax breaks and patent extensions on rare-disease drugs, would lead to the creation of an industry. Now, he worries the industry will founder unless he helps it utilize therapeutic cloning. ``I don't want to see a brain drain, with our great biotech-experienced scientists leaving our country and going overseas and conducting some of the most exciting science in the history of the world,'' Hatch said. Michael Kranish can be reached at kranish(at)globe.com 
