Madison Dearborn Partners, a private equity firm based in Chicago, is in talks to acquire the Jefferson Smurfit Group, the large paper and packaging company in Ireland, people close to the companies said Thursday. Jefferson Smurfit issued a statement confirming that it had been approached but declined to identify the bidder. Executives from Madison Dearborn did not return calls seeking comment. The disclosure sent the American depository receipts of Jefferson Smurfit soaring $3.74, or 15 percent, to $28.03. The talks are likely to flush out other suitors, said analysts, who cited the International Paper Co. and Mondi International, a division of Anglo-American, as potential bidders. Paper and packaging companies have been consolidating to shield themselves from a global economic slowdown that has crimped demand for everything from magazine paper to cardboard boxes. In one recent deal, the Weyerhaeuser Co. paid $7.8 billion to acquire Willamette Industries. Jefferson Smurfit, the world's largest producer of container board, the paper used to make cardboard boxes, has been on an acquisition spree lately, driven by its chief executive, Michael Smurfit, who is the founder's son. Smurfit has been criticized for his large salary and spending. Although the company is based in Dublin, Smurfit lives in Monaco and is an avid horseracing fan and golfer. Jefferson Smurfit owns the Kildare Hotel and Country Club, which will be host to the 2005 Ryder Cup. Smurfit has said he will give up the chief executive post in October, although he is expected to remain chairman. Some of Jefferson Smurfit's acquisitions have come with costly side effects. A 1998 purchase of 29 percent of the Stone Container Corp., for instance, has depressed Jefferson Smurfit's share price. Owning a minority stake means Jefferson Smurfit cannot consolidate Stone's cash flow in its financial statements, yet Stone contributes nearly half of Jefferson Smurfit's earnings. Investors have discounted the stock as a result of that awkward relationship, and few suitors would want the company as long as it retained its stake in Stone, said Liam Igoe, an analyst with Goodbody Stockbrokers. The current negotiations address that problem, although talks are still at an early stage, people close to the companies said. Jefferson Smurfit would spin off its stake in Stone Container to its own shareholders. For each Jefferson Smurfit share they own, investors would receive one share to reflect the value of their stake in Stone Container, and one to reflect the value of their Jefferson Smurfit holding. Then, an acquirer could bid only for the Jefferson Smurfit shares. An offer, excluding the value of Stone Container, could be worth about $2.5 billion, analysts said. An acquirer would also assume $1.3 billion in Jefferson Smurfit debt. Madison Dearborn has been active in the paper and packaging industry before. Recent investments include the Bay State Paper Holding Co., a manufacturer of recycled paperboard products, and Riverwood Holdings, a producer of specialty paper products. 
