ATTENTION EDITORS: This article from the NEWHOUSE NEWS SERVICE report of THURSDAY, MAY 2, 2002, is available as a ``separate buy.'' For information about purchasing the article, contact DEBRA WEYDERT of The New York Times Syndicate at 732-390-4480; fax, 732-390-4697; e-mail, weyded(at)nytimes.com Art advisory: With photo of Marilynn Momber (NNS3); and with a graphic charting milkfat production and consumption For information about purchasing art call 202-383-7824 Two optional trims to 1,250 words By BARBARA WIELAND c.2002 Newhouse News Service (UNDATED) They're some of the most widely recognized ads out there: Got Milk? Pork, the Other White Meat. Beef. It's what's for dinner. Such ads are funded through federally mandated ``checkoff'' programs. Farmers who produce pork, beef or dairy products must pay a portion of their sales into a fund that finances the ads. Other agricultural products, such as apples, corn and asparagus, also have checkoff programs that are overseen by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. But now those programs are under attack, and the ads that grocery shoppers have known for so long could disappear. The Supreme Court ruled last year that the program for mushroom growers was unconstitutional. Forcing farmers to pay for the ads constitutes forced speech, the court said. In the wake of that decision, some farmers of other products are questioning their checkoff programs. The dairy and beef checkoffs are currently being challenged in court. The pork producers' program has asked the courts to decide whether their program is constitutional. Getting rid of the program that produces the ``Got Milk?'' and ``Ahh, the power of Cheese'' ads would make Marilynn Momber a happy farmer. ``They pay millions to have these celebrity ads,'' the Sparta, Mich., dairy farmer said. ``If they do it to sell more milk, OK. But the price for milk (paid) to me keeps going down.'' Like all other dairy farmers, Momber pays 15 cents into the fund for every 100 pounds of milk she sells. Recently, that added up to a charge of $312.69 over a two-week period. The money is sent to the Michigan Dairy Association and Dairy Management Inc., two organizations charged with creating demand for dairy products on the state and national level, respectively. Besides creating ad campaigns, the groups also fund research and education programs and promote dairy products at supermarkets. Last year, the dairy program was the 84th largest buyer of ad space in the nation. Momber, 45, doesn't dispute the program's success in selling more milk products. But simply selling more milk hasn't helped her farm. She currently is selling milk for less than it costs to produce. She also doesn't want her money to fund ads that she finds objectionable. A recent milk mustache ad featuring Aerosmith singer Steven Tyler carried the tagline with the double entendre, ``Make your bones rock hard.'' Similarly, a group of Amish farmers has objected to supporting milk mustache ads featuring the scantily clad singer Britney Spears. ``I don't want to be associated with this,'' Momber said. ``This is unconstitutional. It forces you to say something you don't want to say. It's your freedom of speech at stake.'' That's why Momber is heartened by a recent lawsuit filed in Pennsylvania challenging the checkoff program. The suit claims the USDA compels speech. The farmers who filed the suit are being represented by the Virginia-based Center for Individual Freedom. The group is also representing cattle raisers in Montana who want to get rid of their checkoff program. ``For some, objecting to these programs is a matter of principle; for others, it's a matter of livelihood,'' said Eric Schippers, executive director of the center, a nonprofit group. Some farmers feel the ads, which are intended to promote a commodity generically, work against individual farmers. The Pennsylvania dairy farmers produce hormone- and additive-free milk that they differentiate from everyday milk. The ads they pay for don't make that distinction, they argued. Others simply say the programs create a financial hardship. Momber pays several thousands of dollars a year into the fund. In all, the dairy program amassed $250 million last year, Schippers said. That money was put to good use, said David Pelzer, vice president of Dairy Management Inc., the national group that receives funds from dairy farmers. The checkoff program has led to more milk consumption and also benefited consumers, Pelzer said. (FIRST OPTIONAL TRIM BEGINS) Last year, more milk was consumed in the United States than was produced domestically. That wasn't the case before the checkoff program began 19 years ago, Pelzer said. At the time, there was a glut of milk and the government bought much of the surplus. Farmers banded together to form the checkoff program in an attempt to correct the situation. ``Farmers were really alarmed; the government had been doing a lot of subsidization,'' Pelzer said. These days, the dairy program is the largest agricultural marketing effort of its kind. Besides paying for ad campaigns, the checkoff funds also have been used to teach farmers better production methods. Nutritional research also is funded through the program. (FIRST OPTIONAL TRIM ENDS) One thing it doesn't do is control milk prices. ``There are price swings year to year, but dairy prices the last few years have been pretty good on average,'' Pelzer said. ``You have to realize, though, that we have no control over pricing.'' He noted that prices likely would be even lower if demand hadn't risen because of the dairy program. The USDA places itself squarely in the corner of the agricultural marketing programs. ``The Department of Agriculture, in partnership with the Department of Justice, is waging a vigorous defense of research and promotion programs,'' said USDA spokesman Billy Cox. ``The USDA believes wholeheartedly in these programs.'' In the USDA's view, the marketing programs constitute government speech. The government has a stake in promoting domestic farm products, Cox said. ``These programs are part of a broader regulatory policy,'' he said. ``That mission is to improve market competitiveness and the farm economy for the benefit of consumers and American agriculture.'' The government's position has landed it in court several times in recent years. Currently, it's fighting to keep the beef checkoff alive. Some ranchers that produce hormone-free beef object to the program, said Schippers, whose group is challenging the beef program in a federal court in Montana. ``Clearly, everyone is not benefiting equally from this,'' he said. ``The organic farmers are not benefiting as much as Hormel or the big beef packers.'' Dennis Heffron, a Belding, Mich., farmer who markets ``natural'' beef at his Grand Rapids farm markets, disagrees. Heffron pays $1 per head of cattle into the fund that created the ad campaign: ``Beef. It's what's for dinner.'' He thinks that's a good value. ``That money is used for advertising and promotions of a type that give the beef industry a good name,'' he said. ``I put some of their materials in my store.'' The ads don't recommend buying mainstream beef over Heffron's natural product, he said. They don't put him in competition with other ranchers. Instead, the ads, promotions and suggested recipes suggest that beef is a good part of a nutritious diet. ``Nobody else puts money in to educate the consumer about products,'' he said. ``Whenever we can get the consumer to eat healthy and keep beef as a part of their diet, that's a plus.'' The checkoff programs have become contentious as small family farms compete more frequently with large agri-businesses, said Sam Hines, executive vice president of the Michigan Pork Producers Association. ``The smaller operator began to think only the larger producer benefited, while the larger ones think only the smaller ones are,'' he said. He says the program helps everyone in the industry. For example, research funded through the program found that pork is 50 percent leaner today than it was 50 years ago. That has been achieved through selective breeding, Hines said. In recent years, the pork program has tried to educate the public about the nutritional value of pork. The leanness of pork was underscored with the ``Pork, the Other White Meat'' ad campaign. The checkoff program also has created new markets for pork producers. When the program started 16 years ago, America still imported pork. Now the United States is the second largest pork exporter in the world. (SECOND OPTIONAL TRIM FOLLOWS) Allendale, Mich., farmer Harley Sietsema is pleased with the checkoff program, which costs him 45 cents for every $100 of a pig's value when it is sold. ``If I want to be in this business, I have to promote pork any way I can,'' Sietsema said. ``I consider it a normal part of doing business.'' Sietsema says all pork producers have benefited from the checkoff program. That's why it would be unfair if some farmers could opt out of it. ``If only half support the research and marketing, the other half get a free ride,'' he said. ``We have to do it as a group, or individually we'll all fall apart.'' JL END WIELAND (Barbara Wieland is a staff writer for The Grand Rapids (Mich.) Press. She can be contacted at bwieland(at)gr-press.com.) 
