For questions, please call 404-526-5456. Photo and graphics information and editors' names can be found at the end of this budget. WAR ON TERRORISM AFGHAN-WAR _ WASHINGTON _The Pentagon said today that there are no plans to increase the number of U.S. troops, about 7,000, in Afghanistan. Also, there's been nothing new going on with the enemy in the past few weeks and the Operation Snipe under way with British leadership is a part of the on-going operation to check caves and hideouts. (Edmonson, Atlanta Journal-Constitution). LONGTERM-WAR _ WASHINGTON _If there's one clear, consistent message from the Bush administration about the war against terrorism it is that the task will be neither simple nor swift. That's echoed in the words of numerous officials. Has that sunk in with the public? (Edmonson, Atlanta Journal-Constitution). TER-RESERVES _ ATLANTA _ As America's war on terrorism expands, so does the call-up of Army reservists. The man now charged with figuring out which of those units gets tapped for activation is a Savannah native who took over as boss of the U.S. Army Reserve Command in ceremonies Friday at Fort McPherson. James Helmly, who is about to be promoted to major general, will oversee more than 200,000 soldiers in the continental United States. (Martz, Atlanta Journal-Constitution). WITH PHOTO. INTERNATIONAL IMMIGRATION-MEXICO _ WASHINGTON _ Juan Hernandez, Mexico's cabinet secretary for Mexicans living abroad, announces plans for lobbying state and federal lawmakers on behalf of migrants in the United States. (Malone, Cox News Service). NATIONAL DIESEL _ WASHINGTON _ A U.S. Court of Appeals panel Friday upheld EPA rules requiring large trucks to reduce their emissions of several major pollutants and refiners to cut the amount of sulfur in diesel fuel. (Nesmith, Cox News Service) Moving in (w) Washington and (f) financial categories. WAN: Atlanta, National, Environm PRIEST-VICTIM _ WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. _ At the age of 12, Kelly Duprey saw her priest as someone she could trust. Twenty-two years later, she knows better. It took her that long to recall the shocking way she says Father Frank Flynn kissed and touched her at the end of hundreds of intimate counseling sessions. Kelly Duprey, now 34-year-old Kelly Hofmann, put it behind her and got married and had children and moved away. Then came the jolt of memory and the images rushed out, now seen from the perspective of an adult, not a mixed-up teenager. It had to be a crime, Kelly Hofmann decided. She went to police and they told her no, at one time it may have been, but no longer. Too many years had passed. (Engelhardt, Palm Beach Post). 30. WITH PHOTO). CITIZEN _ ATLANTA _ An 84-year-old Russian woman, Valentina Bukshteyn, will be sworn in Friday morning as a U.S. citizen. What's unusual is that the ceremony will be at a hospice, where she has been since being diagnosed with a terminal illness. It has been her life-long dream to become a U.S. citizen, and the INS is obliging her. (Bixler, Atlanta Journal-Constitution). 20. WITH PHOTO. OPED/EDITORIAL NETHAWAY-COLUMN _ WACO, Texas _ Hoochie pants are causing skin problems, career women are doomed to be childless and the most powerful woman in government is quitting her job to be with her family. Men are to blame. (Rowland Nethaway is senior editor of the Waco Tribune-Herald) MOVED., WRIGHT-BROS-COLUMN _ DAYTON, Ohio _ Early in May, Octave Chanute wrote to Wilbur Wright that he hoped to pay a visit to the Wrights' home and that they would have an opportunity to talk over aviation matters at that time. He said Charles Lamson was building a folding machine for him ``of which I shall ask your acceptance as well as two former types which he expected to have rebuilt.'' He said that he did not intend to experiment any more himself. (Young, Dayton Daily News). LATHAM-COLUMN _ Phil Latham's column is not available this week. It will return soon. MCCARTY-COLUMN _ Mary McCarty's column will return soon. BUSINESS GRADS-JOBS _ In addition to having impeccable skills and resumes, this year's college grads better have thick skin. Job market experts are the upcoming job market flood ``The Summer of Rejection Notices.'' The 1.2 million grads being unleashed into the job market are facing the toughest outlook since the last recession. But they can take heart: there are some jobs out there (the Enron-Andersen mess has made auditors - the job market's equivalent of the football team equipment manager - the star quarterback. (Joyner, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution). 35. DOWDOW _ A bigger than expected jump in U.S. unemployment in April and a smaller than expected increase in new jobs sparked b road-based selling in the stock market on Friday. The nation's purchasing managers also said their index of non-manufacturing service business roase at a smaller than expected rate, adding to the gloom. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped back below 10,000 again after two sessions above that psychologically important level. (Atlanta Journal-Constitution) DIESEL _ WASHINGTON _ A U.S. Court of Appeals panel Friday upheld EPA rules requiring large trucks to reduce their emissions of several major pollutants and refiners to cut the amount of sulfur in diesel fuel. (Nesmith, Cox News Service) Moving in (w) Washington and (f) financial categories. WAN: Atlanta, National, Environm CAR-COLUMN-BMW _ AUSTIN _ The most distinctive contemporary auto is new to the market. BMW's massively redesigned flagship sedan, the 745i, is a magnificent piece of innovation for those who can afford $70,000 or more. (Szilagyi, Austin American-Statesman). WITH PHOTO. LIFESTYLE GAY-AWARD _ DECATUR. Ga. _ Kecia Cunningham, the only openly gay black elected official in Georgia, will be honored Saturday (May 4) at the 15th annual Atlanta Human Rights Campaign (HRC) dinner. Another politician, former U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno, will be the keynote speaker at the HRC dinner in the Marriott Marquis. Cunningham helped persuade the Decatur City Council to ban discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation as well as provide domestic partner benefits for city employees. Cunningham talks frankly about the challenges of being a black and gay political role model and why there are so few. (Blake, Atlanta Journal-Constitution). 18-20. FAITH AND VALUES RELIGION-RITES-OF-PASSAGE _ ATLANTA _ It's not just children who observe the rites of passage. Adults reclaiming their religious roots often choose to undergo the milestone ceremonies they missed earlier. (GWhite, Atlanta Journal-Constitution). 40. WITH PHOTOS. RELIGION-JUDAISM-BOOK _ ATLANTA _ Rabbi Boteach, who stirred up a controversy with his best seller, ``Kosher Sex,'' is back with a new book that is likely to cause more religious ripples. ``Judaism for Everyone'' is not intended to win converts, but to show how everyone can incorporate Jewish teachings into their everyday lives. (O'Briant, Atlanta Journal-Constitution). 15. RELIGION-CARDS _ ATLANTA _ The mystic English poet, William Blake, once wrote a famous poem about ``holding infinity in the palm of your hand.'' Now people can literally accomplish that feat through the popularity of inspirational gift cards. The hot-selling cards, which are about the same size as a deck of playing cards, contain rich artwork and a pithy spiritual message. Best-selling authors as diverse as Christian author, Bruce Wilkinson, ``The Prayer of Jabez,'' and New Age speaker, Marianne Williamson, use the cards. I talk to the makers of the cards as well as people who use them. 12-15. (Atlanta Journal-Constitution). WITH PHOTOS. SPORTS CAR-NASCAR-POLE _ RICHMOND _ NASPOLE pole coverage. (Minter, Atlanta Journal-Constitution). 13. GLF-LPGA-LEDE _ STOCKBRIDGE, Ga. _ Second round coverage of Chic-fil-A Classic. (Sheeley, Atlanta Journal-Constitution). 18. WITH GLF-LPGA-MOMS _ STOCKBRIDGE, Ga. _ Following recent reports about the cost of a high-powered career for women who want to have children, we talk to LPGA players about their choices and sacrifices and the perception of whether they can have both. Juli Inkster, ninth on the money list, is the highest ranked Tour mom. The rest of the top players are younger and childless. (Hiskey, Atlanta Journal-Constitution). 25. RAC-DERBY-PREVIEW _ LOUISVILLE, Ky. _ Preview of the Kentucky Derby. (George, Palm Beach Post). 16. COXNET BUDGET INFORMATION This budget moves at 2:30 p.m. and 6 p.m. EDT and afterwards as necessary based on news developments. If stories will move after 8 p.m., an ETA will be given. All times are Eastern unless otherwise noted. HOW TO REACH US Questions should be directed to CoxNet, the Cox News Service, in Atlanta at 800-950-3739 or 404-526-5456. We are staffed 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. Monday-Friday, and 2-10 p.m. on weekends and holidays. News editor Tom Oder, 404-526-5887, toder(at)coxnews.com. Assistant news editor Alan Gordon, 404-526-7282, agordon(at)coxnews.com Cox Washington Bureau: News editor Carl Rauscher, 202-887-8307, crausher(at)coxnews.com Foreign editor Chuck Holmes, 202-887-8320 , chuckh(at)coxnews.com Bureau chief Andy Alexander, 202-887-8334, andya(at)coxnews.com Photo Editor Rick McKay 202-887-8348, rickm(at)coxnews.com Enterprise editor Art Dalglish, 202-887-8338, artd(at)coxnews.com Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
