Two engines hummed, two doors swung open, and Jerry West stood between them, awkwardly, emotionally, straddling his glorious past and a strange new future. Early Tuesday morning, on a private runway at LAX, West made his final, symbolic break from the Los Angeles Lakers, the only post-college employer he has ever known. A private jet sat waiting to whisk him to Memphis, to a career with the woeful Grizzlies. Mitch Kupchak, West's longtime friend and protege, sat in his black Mercedes sedan, the passenger door open, inviting him to come back. Sometime between about 6:30 and 7 a.m., West pushed away the tears and whatever temptation remained, and boarded the plane. By early afternoon, he was sitting before a rapturous audience in a downtown Memphis hotel, being introduced as the Grizzlies' new president. It was a move few expected West to make, even as recently as a few days ago. But by the time Kupchak rolled onto the tarmac, it was clear West was ready to leave the Lakers behind, ready to close the book on a 42-year relationship that many believed would never end. ``I tried to talk him out of it this morning,'' Kupchak said light- heartedly. ``I drove my car out on the tarmac and opened the door and said, 'Get in.' He wouldn't get in. He looked at me and smiled.'' The two longtime friends shared some heartfelt sentiments, wished each other good luck and parted ways. For the first time in the Los Angeles era, the Lakers are without West. For the first time since he became assistant general manager in 1986, so too is Kupchak. Yet, if the symbolism of West's departure seemed a little unsettling, the actual impact came across as something more like a bemused shoulder shrug. In reality, West left 21 months ago, when he retired as the Lakers' head of basketball operations and drifted into a nebulous consulting role. Since then, he has been an infrequent visitor to the Lakers' El Segundo headquarters, though he remained a valued confidant and advisor to Kupchak. ``We've functioned for two years really without Jerry being intimately involved,'' said Kupchak, who wasn't convinced until Monday that West really would take the Memphis job. No one expects much to change now that West has made a final break. ``Jerry wasn't a presence around here,'' coach Phil Jackson said. ``He hasn't been around the team for two years.'' Kupchak assumed the responsibilities and the burdens in August 2000, after 14 years at West's side. It was Kupchak who orchestrated a four-team deal that brought Horace Grant to the Lakers and jettisoned malcontent Glen Rice in September 2000. It was Kupchak who reloaded the Lakers' bench by acquiring Samaki Walker, Lindsey Hunter and Mitch Richmond last summer. West left the Lakers with two superstars, a wealth of veteran role players and the most successful coach of this era. And he left them with a skilled GM who was being sought by several other NBA teams before inheriting West's job. ``He's like a brother to me,'' West said of Kupchak. ``When I watch him now, I'm really happy and proud of what he's been able to accomplish over there the last couple of years. ... He's going to stand on his own.'' The idea that the Lakers of Jackson and Shaquille O'Neal and Kobe Bryant could be adversely affected by West's departure came across as an almost absurd notion. ``Does it cripple the organization? No, it doesn't cripple the organization,'' said assistant coach Kurt Rambis, who spent a year assisting Kupchak and who has been part of the Lakers for most of the last 21 years. ``It's a loss. He's a sounding board, and I can't believe Mitch would lose that sounding board.'' Indeed, as Kupchak himself noted, ``Nothing really changes. I'll probably talk to Jerry more now.'' Owner Jerry Buss lauded Kupchak as a worthy successor, one who shares a similar vision with West. ``I think that's why he hired him, is Mitch's opinions abut players and personnel and chemistry et cetera are very similar to Jerry's,'' Buss said. West's desire to return to work full-time increased over the past year as his health concerns of 2000 subsided and his interest in the game was renewed. Kupchak said West seemed almost bored in his final years as Lakers executive, having already succeeded in rebuilding a championship contender by acquiring O'Neal and Bryant in the summer of 1996. He needed a new challenge, one the Lakers could not offer. ``He came to me and said he really wanted to accept this kind of challenge,'' Buss said. ``To interfere with that, I didn't think was appropriate. I think this is something he really, truly wants to do. It has nothing to do with money and that was basically all I could throw at him.'' Before making the decision final, West consulted with both Buss and L.A.'s other basketball icon, John Wooden -- ``two people I admire greatly.'' ``And they were really helpful in getting me to the point ... (that) I could consider doing something else in my life,'' West said. ``It was a difficult decision.'' Yet even as he embarked on this new, strange mission, West made it clear where his heart lies. ``I'll never break my tie with the Lakers,'' he said. ``It's something that was probably the most important thing in my professional life. So that will never be broken.'' 
