Muckraking is a great American tradition that dates back to the early 1900s, when writers such as Ida Tarbell, Samuel Hopkins Adams and Upton Sinclair went about exposing the misdeeds of oil companies, meat-packing factories and others. Their efforts often resulted in government regulations being imposed on previously unchecked industries. Judith Helfand and Daniel B. Gold's marvelous documentary Blue Vinyl carries the muckraking tradition into the 21st century _ into the age of self-obsession. The film is ostensibly an investigation into the environmental and health dangers of polyvinyl chloride (PVC), a widely used synthetic material. But the investigation is framed around a more personal mission: Helfand wanted to persuade her parents to remove the vinyl siding on their home and replace it with a more environmentally friendly material. Let's make this much clear up front: Helfand and Gold are extraordinarily lucid storytellers who manage to make complicated scientific information accessible to the layman. Helfand journeys to Lake Charles, La. (the site of one of the largest PVC factories in the country), and then to Venice, Italy (where the links between PVC and cancer first emerged, when a number of factory workers there became ill in the late 1960s). She conducts interviews with scientists, environmentalists and retired factory workers. And what emerges is a compelling history of PVC, and an even more compelling case for why it should be phased out of production. But lest any of this sound like something you begrudgingly endured back in junior high school science class, let's also get this much straight: Blue Vinyl is a hugely entertaining work. Whenever the film threatens to turn too serious or academic, we find ourselves back in Helfand's parents' living room in Long Island. These scenes are tender, touching and very funny _ as the overly earnest daughter tries to persuade her set-in-their-ways parents to do something they clearly don't want to do, for the sake of the common good. I suppose one could quibble with the personal nature of the filmmaking, which dominates in the second half of the film. Thousands of people may have developed serious illnesses, or died, due to exposure to PVC by-products; yet Helfand determines that the story should ultimately be about herself. On the other hand, there's something very canny about this approach. The muckraking tradition seems to be on life-support in recent years. (Michael Moore's 1989 film Roger and Me briefly revived interest in the genre but, fortunately, his brand of smug condescension never caught on.) I suspect this is because of the increasingly complex and global nature of industry; it's hard to find a way into stories of corporate misconduct when a corporation's tentacles extend in a dozen different directions. (This is probably the reason we've yet to see a widely popular book or documentary on the Microsoft antitrust case, or on the impact of the AOL/Time Warner merger.) Blue Vinyl, which premiered at this year's Sundance Film Festival and which will air tonight on HBO as part of the ``America Undercover'' series, suggests a real future for muckrakers. It's a sterling example of a kind of postmodern populism: It locates the global in our own living rooms (or, as the case may be, on the sides of our houses), and it argues that self-obsession can actually be the first step on the road toward changing the world. (Christopher Kelly is the film critic for the Fort Worth Star-Telegram. You can call him at (817) 390-7032, or e-mail: cmkelly(at)star-telegram.com. Visit the Star-Telegram's online services on the World Wide Web: www.star-telegram.com).MDBU/ nn 
