Cleveland pitcher Chuck Finley, who will start against his former Anaheim Angels teammates tonight, is in the third and final year of his three-year, $27 million deal with the Indians. He said he hasn't determined whether he'll retire at the end of this season, but returning to the Angels next season is not an option. ``I don't know if there's a place for me over there,'' said Finley, who spent 14 seasons with the Angels. ''I wouldn't feel too comfortable. I don't know many people there, except for four or five people in the front office. The surroundings don't feel that familiar anymore.'' Finley did say that once his playing days are through, he'd consider working for the Angels in some capacity. But it wouldn't be something which would take him away from his Newport Beach home. ``Like getting coffee for the GM,'' Finley quipped. ''Or making sure (vice president) Tim Mead has fresh flowers on his desk every day.'' Finley has maintained a sense of humor despite going through plenty of changes recently. He filed for divorce last month only days after his wife, actress Tawny Kitaen, was charged with spousal battery while the Indians were in town to play the Angels. ``I come here (to the ballpark) and everything else goes away for a couple hours,'' he said. ``I'm in a situation where I've got more things going on away from the game. But sometimes it's hard not to think about things when you're sitting in the dugout watching a game.'' Finley missed his scheduled start against the Angels on April 3, when the allegations against his wife were made public. ``I talked with the general manager (Mark Shapiro) and we came to the conclusion of, what's more important here?'' Finley said of skipping his start. ``It was a no-brainer.'' Finley, 2-2 with a 6.75 ERA in four starts, said he won't decide on what he'll do next season until after this one. ``Physically, I feel great,'' he said. ``It'll come down to whether I still want to play. I still feel I can compete and win big ballgames. I think my stuff's good enough; I know it is.'' --Down and up: The Angels made a roster move after Wednesday's game, optioning outfielder Jeff DaVanon to Triple-A Salt Lake and calling up outfielder Julio Ramirez. DaVanon homered, singled and drove in four runs Tuesday night but was hitting .167 overall and often appeared overmatched at the plate. Ramirez was hitting .272 with one homer and six RBI at Salt Lake. 
