Jarrod Washburn spent much of Wednesday afternoon in the Anaheim Angels clubhouse making sure a group of his teammates were committed to going on the early-morning fishing trip he organized for today. Ramon Ortiz, though, promised to go only if Washburn pitched well against the Cleveland Indians Wednesday night. After Washburn held the Indians to two runs and five hits in seven innings in a 7-2 Angels win, it's safe to say Ortiz got his wakeup call. ``I'll be interested to see how he handles a fly rod,'' Washburn said. The win was the Angels' sixth in a row, matching their longest winning streak last season. Washburn (3-2) pitched his best game of the season and got help from the resurgent Angels offense, which had 11 hits, including two each from Darin Erstad, Brad Fullmer and Adam Kennedy. The key to the game came in the fifth inning when Washburn faced his only trouble of the night. With the Angels leading 4-1, Washburn walked two and gave up a single and the Indians had the bases loaded with nobody out. He fell behind in the count to Omar Vizquel before giving up a sacrifice fly. Facing the Indians' Nos. 3 and 4 hitters, Washburn got Travis Fryman to pop out and got Jim Thome to take a called third strike to get out of it. ``Facing Thome, that was fun for me,'' Washburn said. ``He's a great hitter and that was a tough situation. It was fun.'' Fun because Washburn caught Thome looking at a slider to end the threat. ``The true story of (Washburn) is to look at the bottom line,'' Angels manager Mike Scioscia said. ``He's very aggressive going after hitters. You look at his innings and the runs he gives up, he's certainly comparable to the top pitchers in our league.'' Washburn retired the Indians in order in the sixth and seventh innings before calling it a night. During the seventh, Scioscia made a visit to the mound to check on Washburn, who complained of a tight forearm. But he was allowed to finish the inning and says he's fine. The offense got a boost from Fullmer, a product of Montclair Prep who does not have a home run this season but keyed Angels rallies in the second and fourth innings. In the second, Fullmer tripled to right-center, then scored on Bengie Molina's sacrifice fly to give the Angels a 1-0 lead. After Einar Diaz's homer in the third tied the game 1-1, the Angels scored three in the fourth, including one on Fullmer's RBI double. Going homerless in April marked the first time in Fullmer's major-league career he's gone a full month without a homer. But he said it's not a concern. ``Home runs are the furthest thing from my mind,'' Fullmer said. ``I have no desire to focus on that right now. Worrying about hitting home runs only prolongs problems at the plate. If you hit the ball hard, that will take care of itself.'' 
