Attn Sports Editors: 	Sports stories from The New York Times News Service for SATURDAY, May 4. 	Kentucky Derby Week 	RAC-DERBY (Louisville, Ky.) _ On the eve of the Kentucky Derby, one of the favorites _ Buddha, the winner of the Wood Memorial three weeks ago _ is pulled from the race with a bruised foot. So, 19 horses will now go to the starting gate, instead of 20. By Joe Drape. 	RAC-DERBY-LOUISVILLE (Louisville, Ky.) _ The Kentucky Derby is the best-known horse race in the United States; the one day a year when the most casual of fans tune in to watch on television and more than 150,000 crowd into Churchill Downs to watch the race live, or at least try to. But the day before the Derby, is Kentucky Oaks Day in Louisville. It's the day when the rest of the nation isn't watching, but when the city of Louisville basically takes the day off to celebrate, with 100,000 or more people heading to the track. And there's a big race, too, which is contested by some of the top fillies in the country. By Joe Drape. 	RAC-RHODEN-COLUMN (Louisville, Ky.) _ Sports of The Times column on the Kentucky Derby. By William C. Rhoden. 	Other Sports 	BKN-VECSEY-COLUMN (East Rutherford, N.J.) _ Sports of The Times column on the Nets, who won a remarkable Game 5 in double overtime on Thursday night to advance to the second round of the playoffs. By 	BKN-CELTICS-SIXERS (Boston) _ Philadelphia at Boston, 7 p.m, the deciding Game 5 in this hard-fought first-round playoff series. By Chris Broussard. 	For information and repeats call the News Service at (888) 346-9867 or (212) 556-1927. And be sure to look for other sports stories from our partners: The Boston Globe, Cox News Service, Hearst News Service, The Arizona Republic, Kansas City Star, Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Los Angeles Daily News, San Francisco Chronicle and Seattle Post-Intelligencer. 	(Editors: All clients receive all budgets, but only full-service clients receive all stories. Please check your level of service to determine which stories you will receive.) 
