TECHNOLOGY NEWS IN BRIEF  c.2002 New York Times News Service 	HARDWARE 	CISCO BUYS TWO COMPANIES 	Cisco Systems, the leading maker of networking equipment, said Wednesday that it had acquired two closely held companies for as much as $258 million in stock. The acquisitions of Hammerhead Networks, of Billerica, Mass., and Navarro Networks, of Plano, Texas, are expected to be completed in Cisco's fourth quarter, which ends in July. Cisco, based in San Jose, Calif., expects to take a related charge of up to 2 cents a share. It already owns 11 percent of Hammerhead, which makes software that runs on Cisco's hardware for service providers, and 14 percent of Navarro, which makes networking chips. Shares of Cisco fell 95 cents, to $13.70, after the announcement. Craig Griffin, a director for business development, said the acquisitions were in areas that already created substantial profits for Cisco. 	TIVO IN SOFTWARE DEAL WITH AOL 	TiVo Inc., the maker of personal video recorder systems, announced Wednesday that it would integrate America Online features, like instant messaging and live chat, into its TiVo Series 2 digital video recorder. AOL members who are TiVo subscribers will also be able to schedule recordings on TiVo from AOL, the company said. Although AOL said it would pay TiVo an undisclosed development fee for the applications, a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission indicated that AOL, a subsidiary of AOL Time Warner, had already made a $4 million payment. AOL invested $200 million in TiVo in 2000, but TiVo said Wednesday that it would return $48 million because the new product ``will not require the subsidy payments contemplated at the time of the original agreement.'' AOL will return 1.6 million shares of TiVo preferred stock. TiVo shares ended up 33 cents, at $4.05. 	FORMER 3COM CHIEF AT START-UP 	L. William Krause, the former chief executive of the 3Com Corp. and Exodus Communications, has been named president and chief executive of Caspian Networks, a telecommunications equipment company. He succeeds Bill Sickler. Krause was also chief executive of Stom Technology, a digital imaging company, from 1991 to 1998. Caspian, based in San Jose, Calif., makes routing and switching equipment for Internet providers. In February, it received $120 million in its fourth round of financing. It has raised more than $260 million. 
