It's an end-of-week tradition treasured by college students across the country: Tap the keg, turn up the stereo, and forget about exams and grade-point averages. And it happens, at many schools, on Thursday nights, not Fridays. The three-day weekend has become the standard on college campuses, where most students don't want classes on Friday _ and many faculty members don't want to teach them. At some schools, the number of class meetings on Friday is nearly two-thirds smaller than other days of the week, prompting Duke University officials to lament that classrooms are ``virtually unused'' after noon on Friday. ``People try to avoid Friday classes, and if they can do it, they brag about it,'' said Tufts University freshman Elliot Hirshom, who has a French class Friday morning. ``I didn't realize it was going to be that big of a thing, but Thursday nights I was having to go to bed earlier than other people.'' But now some college administrators are saying ``enough.'' At Clark University in Worcester, the faculty recently voted to beef up the Friday schedule after realizing that there are almost three times as many class meetings on Mondays and Wednesdays as there are on Fridays. Though it was convenient for faculty members who faced long commutes or heavy research and speaking schedules, administrators successfully argued that the four-day week was damaging academic life on campus. Guest speakers, brown-bag lunches with professors _ in the race to get to the weekend, such gatherings get short shrift, some said. ``We reached a tipping point, and students got in the habit of assuming the week was Monday (through) Thursday,'' said Douglas Little, dean at Clark University. ``What concerned me most . . . was the decline in the intellectual community.'' Similar changes, including more classes on Friday, took effect this year at Wesleyan College in Middletown, Conn., where administrators say they scrutinized the schedule after students complained that there were too many midweek classes. Other colleges are also trying to expand the academic week. At Wellesley College, officials are increasing class meetings on Mondays rather than Fridays to allow more academic gatherings and prevent hard choices between courses. Tufts, too, is trying to distribute courses better. Some school officials say busier Fridays add rigor to campuses that have seen a decline in intellectual discourse. Others cite the potential to curb students' drinking binges on Thursday nights, or to build in ``common time'' designed to bring staff and students closer together, outside of the classroom. The most outspoken proponents think colleges need to schedule aggressively to make a tough first impression on students, so they never get the idea they can slack off. ``If we say it's our expectation, and hold them accountable, they will change,'' said Barry Jackson, wellness director at Bloomsberg University in Pennsylvania, who wrote a report two years ago calling for freshmen to take early morning classes Monday through Saturday to promote a healthier campus environment. The back-to-class movement has been brewing at least since the late 1990s, when studies showed that a lack of Friday classes could be a factor in alcohol abuse by students. A report last month by the college drinking task force of the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism recommended the reinstatement of Friday classes and exams to help reduce high-risk drinking that contributes to an estimated 1,400 student deaths each year. At Duke University, in Durham, N.C., a dean's report on student life two years ago found a ``tiny fraction'' of classes meeting on Fridays and classrooms ``virtually unused'' from noon Friday to noon Monday. Around the same time, department chairs at the University of Southern California were asked to add Friday classes to address concern over rampant long weekends that ``work against the creation of a serious academic climate,'' according to a memo. ``A lot of folks like the fact they don't have class on Fridays,'' said Helen Stubbs, a spokeswoman for the Higher Education Center, a branch of the US Department of Education that addresses college drug and alcohol problems. ``Whether they're doing beer bongs on Thursday night or not, it's nice to not have to set the alarm.'' Changing a college schedule is about as easy as ``moving a graveyard,'' said Little. At first, students despised the thought of starting the weekend at 4 p.m. on Friday _ a day late, as they saw it _ but some slowly warmed to the idea. Student leaders liked the idea of well-attended Wednesday guest lectures stimulating lively thought and discussion on campus. When they got on board, Little said, professors found it hard to withhold their support. Clark senior Heather Sensibough said the four-day week facilitates off-campus pursuits like jobs and travel, but made it almost impossible to find times when students could gather for out-of-classroom sessions with visiting scholars or lunches with professors _ the less-structured learning she enjoyed most about college. ``I wanted to see a common time for students to get together to exchange ideas,'' she said. ``Friday was not usable common time.'' She expects that more people will appreciate the new schedule ``when they see what it means to have active participation and energy.'' That's a big turnaround from just a few years ago, when upper classmen would openly coach freshmen in how to avoid classes on Fridays. Sensibaugh remembers being stunned four years ago when her peer adviser _ an older student assigned to counsel freshmen _ assured her that she needn't have classes on Fridays. ``I was shocked it was possible, and that he was recommending it, because that meant it was widespread,'' she said. ``But then I thought, if I don't have to, why should I?'' The movement away from Friday classes isn't just about student partying or faculty convenience. It also reflects changing demographics in the last 30 years, as increasing numbers of nontraditional students demanded course schedules that could be easily juggled with jobs and family. Saturday classes, long a staple, largely disappeared. Administrators saved money on operations and professors had more time for research. When it comes to Friday afternoons, Wesleyan College senior Samantha Smith doesn't see much difference between college students and the rest of society. ``Everybody is going to start the weekend as early as they can, whether they're in school or at a job,'' she said. A few weeks from graduation, Smith thinks more Friday classes might be a good idea. ``Maybe students do feel righteous about having Fridays off, which is, quite frankly, an obnoxious, spoiled way to be _ and I'm not saying I'm any better,'' she said. ``If (Friday classes) become more common, maybe it would do away with some of that.'' Jenna Russell can be reached at jrussell(at)globe.com. 
