Secretary General Kofi Annan, in the face of continued Israeli objections, Wednesday abandoned a UN mission to investigate an Israeli offensive into a Palestinian refugee camp. In a three-page letter to the UN Security Council, Annan said he regretted that without a fact-finding mission ``the long shadow cast by recent events in the Jenin refugee camp will remain.'' Noting he had made repeated efforts to address Israel's concerns, Annan wrote that he believed the six-member team would have produced an ``accurate, thorough, balanced and credible report.'' The team will be disbanded Thursday. Annan's decision came as the Security Council, which had welcomed the creation of the mission in an American-authored resolution last month, huddled Wednesday night to hammer out its next step. Arab states were poised to push for the 15-member council to vote on a resolution that would call on states to classify Israeli's action as a ``threat to international peace and security,'' something the United States was likely to veto. A spokesman for the Israeli mission to the UN, Ben Harris, did not return phone calls Wednesday, and it was unclear how Israel would react to Annan's decision. Israel originally had welcomed the fact-finding mission, but then raised concerns about its composition and mandate. But the United States, Israel's chief ally on the UN Security Council, expressed regret with Annan's action. ``We and others worked to implement the initative of the secretary general _ we regret that it didn't come to fruition,'' said Richard Grenell, spokesman for US Ambassador John D. Negroponte. Nasser Al-Kidwa, the head of the Palestinian Observer Mission to the UN, was clearly frustrated that Israel had blocked the UN team from investigating what he termed ``war crimes'' in Jenin. He told reporters: ``The main thing to be read in the secretary general's letter is that Israel refused to cooperate with him.'' Annan's letter ended a weeklong stand-off over the fate of the six-member UN mission. He had proposed the team April 19 to investigate allegations by Palestinians that Israeli forces massacred hundreds of civilians and violated the international laws of war three-week siege of the camp. Israel denies the allegation and says Palestinian gunmen were the main victims. Despite days of negotiations with the UN on those issues, Israel on Tuesday decided it would not allow the UN investigators to proceed unless certain demands were met. While some concerns appeared to have been addressed _ military, political, and legal advisers were added to the three original members of the team _ others were not. Israel feared the UN team would not reflect its concerns that Jenin was a ``terrorist stronghold.'' Other concerns included that the UN's mandate might widen, or that their findings might result in legal action. Israel had been seeking assurances that soldiers cooperating with the inquiry would be immune from war crimes prosecution. Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres said Tuesday that Israel feels ``there was an attempt to put a blood libel against her,'' saying thousands died, when 26 Israeli soldiers were killed, 45 armed Palestinians _ ``and I regret it'' _ seven civilians. In canceling the mission, Annan noted that time was ``a critical factor.'' ``With the situation in the Jenin refugee camp changing by the day, it will become more and more difficult to establish with any confidence or accuracy the `recent events' that took place there,'' he said Wednesday. While Annan's decision appeared to have ended the immediate drama over the mission, specialists said the issue would not be easily forgotten, reflecting badly on Israel, the UN, and its most powerful decision-making body, the Security Council. ``The UN as a whole emerges from this week of to-ing and fro-ing with reduced credibility,'' said David Malone, president of the New York-based International Peace Academy and a former UN diplomat. UN-Israel relations have long been fractious. The UN supervised Israel's formation as a state in 1948. But since the 1960s, Israel has viewed the UN with skepticism, as the world body on occasion was a forum for pro-Palestinian views. In recent years Israeli-UN relations appear to have mended. Now, some experts see its concerns over the UN fact-finding mission's composition and mandate as defiance of the Security Council. ``I don't recall a Security Council resolution having been introduced by the US which Israel has ignored and rejected so categorically,'' said John Ruggie, a professor at Harvard University's School of Law and a former adviser to Annan. But a Western diplomat here said he did not see Israel's objections to the mission as a rebuff to US policy but as a reflection of its lack of supporters at the UN. ``When UN member states work to alienate Israel on a consistent basis, it is no wonder that Israel is not more inclined to work with a UN body,'' said the diplomat, who spoke on condition of anonymity. Other analysts noted that Israel, by failing to broker a compromise with the UN over the mission, may have lost a chance to rid doubts about its actions in the Jenin camp. ``Israel may be missing if not a golden then a silver opportunity to cooperate with the UN and have an objective fact-finding mission come out on their side for a change,'' said Hurst Hannum, a professor of international law at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University. 
