Under fire for its role in Enron's downfall, the auditing firm faces a criminal obstruction of justice trial in Houston next week, numerous lawsuits, the loss of scores of clients and possible bankruptcy. But partners not found to be culpable for wrongdoing will probably lose only their investment in the firm. Though that may be sizable _ seven figures in some cases _ it's a far cry from exposing their private pocketbooks to disgruntled clients and others. ``Obviously, they've kissed a lot of money goodbye. These people are talking about huge losses based on their equity in the firm. But it's another step, and a huge step, to be personally liable as well,'' said University of Chicago Law School professor Randal Picker, who is teaching a class on Enron and Andersen. Andersen is a limited liability partnership. The LLP was created in 1991 by the Texas legislature. Inspired by the savings and loan scandal, lawmakers wanted to limit the legal liability of professionals for malpractice committed by other partners, while avoiding the heavy tax consequences borne by a corporation. Legislators were acting largely at the behest of lawyers spooked by the millions paid out by law firms in Texas and New York for their actions in the savings and loan scandal. Similar legislation was spurred elsewhere in the nation by the 1990 bankruptcy of Philadelphia accounting firm Laventhol &AMP; Horvath, whose partners had to shoulder enormous liability. By 1998 just about every other state had created some type of limited liability corporation, generally used to protect professionals from paying for the misdeeds of their colleagues. These professionals had previously organized as regular partnerships, spurning corporate designations largely because of the tax burden of paying both corporate and personal tax on some income. The only downside, as one lawyer put it, is that it seems ungentlemanly that every partner does not take responsibility for every act of his company. The unsophisticated client could possibly expect every partner to back every other one with his life savings. ``Many years ago it was considered rather unclassy to practice in any kind of limited liability entity,'' said Mark Foster, a Washington, D.C., expert on limited liability partnerships. But Foster said times have changed. He said there is an assumption that clients understand what a limited liability partnership means, and he sees it as ``foolhardy, risky and unwise`` for lawyers and other professionals to practice in any other way. To be sure, any partner who commits malpractice, fraud or similar misdeed can be held personally liable. For instance, liability seems likely for David Duncan, former Arthur Andersen auditor who pleaded guilty to obstruction of justice and said he had ordered Enron-related documents shredded two days after learning of a federal investigation of the energy company. But state law in Illinois, where Andersen's U.S. firm is registered, makes liable not only the firm's bad actor, but all his supervisory partners. That section of the Illinois law is more restrictive and plaintiff-friendly than the rules in some other states. ``The (supervisory liability is) a huge hole, and the lawyers who are suing Arthur Andersen will try to drive the entire Fifth Army through that hole,'' said Jason Warner, a Miami lawyer who regularly speaks on limited liability partnerships. Warner and other experts said there is little case law on limited liability partnerships, because they have only been around a decade. Thus, just how far plaintiffs lawyers can go up the food chain at Andersen to get to partners' personal assets remains to be seen. Also unclear is whether lawyers could argue that the entire firm acted criminally or negligently and somehow ``pierce the veil'' of the partnership and make all partners accountable. Warner said if the Justice Department proves its obstruction-of-justice case against the entire firm, that could form the basis of an argument that the entire firm has dirty hands and limited-liability protections should be tossed aside. Andersen partners, like owners of most companies, hope to be protected in part by their insurance policies, which could pay off some creditors or provide funds for settling with plaintiffs. But negotiations have been rocky with plaintiffs, and it's possible the firm's $250 million liability policy won't be paid off because of questions about the instability of the insurer itself and a missed payment by Andersen. That would likely accelerate Andersen's descent into bankruptcy. If it does, the scenario for partners is not too much different. ``Partnerships' equity is like stock. If the company goes into bankruptcy, the equity holders have the lowest-ranking claim,'' said Robert Lawless, a bankruptcy professor at the University of Missouri-Columbia School of Law. ``All the partners would be entitled to in bankruptcy is to divide whatever is left over once all other creditors are paid.'' Because of the protections, use of the limited liability partnership form is growing. In April a national legal newspaper wrote that the Andersen debacle is making more law firms affix LLP after their names to take advantage of tax and liability protection. Though Illinois' law specifically bars lawyers from forming limited liability partnerships, Texas does not. In fact, Vinson &AMP; Elkins, the Houston-based law firm sued along with its biggest client Enron, is also a limited liability partnership. XXX END OF STORY 
