Forget April showers and May flowers. Marechal Brown is thinking cactus, maybe tumbleweed. ``Pretty soon we're going to have to start planting stuff that we see in Colorado,'' said Brown, her soil-soaked hands wrapped around a paper coffee cup for warmth. ``It's very scary.'' The severe drought afflicting the East Coast and the West has done more than deplete reservoirs and put a kibosh on sprinklers. Withering weather is also forcing city park stewards, such as Brown, to rethink spring planting into two categories: plants that can make it and plants that may die of thirst. On a cool spring morning, Brown and her crew, about a dozen strong, rake up a moist layer of leaves in a Harlem park. Scattered rain a few days before brought some water to the ground here -- one worker marveled at a squirming earthworm. But despite rain sprinkles here and there, climatologists believe it will take months of normal to above-normal precipitation to end the drought. So city park departments in several rain-deprived states are looking for ways to cope with another season of dryness -- one more in a cycle that most complain has lasted for two years. The drought has already affected flower beds and grass in many parks, said Susan Kalish, a spokeswoman for the National Recreation and Parks Association in Ashburn, Va. Even if extreme drought conditions end this month (and April does tend to be wetter, on average) visitors may still notice changes at the park when they picnic two months from now. ``They're going to be grumpy when it's not as pretty or if some things are going to be closed,'' Kalish said. Urban gardeners have tried to keep up with the changing weather by changing the way they plant. Choosing native species that are more acclimated to local conditions, a process known as xeriscaping, has become more popular. Gardeners also place a heavier emphasis on mulching and adding everything from yucca extract to plastic water capsules in an effort to enhance the soil. ``I'd love to get more rain, but in the meantime we've been pretty successful,'' said Jim Parker, a horticulturist for the City of Savannah, Ga., who uses the yucca extract to break up the soil's surface tension so more water can seep in. ``Instead of the upper 50 percent of the plant, we've been trying to improve our root structures.'' City gardeners are also changing their plants. Hearty varieties, such as goldenrod, periwinkle and aster, for example, are becoming more common. Plants with hairy leaves (wooly thyme, for example) or waxy leaves (such as wax begonia) should fare better. Butterfly weeds, which have long tap roots to reach moist soil in dry weather, are usually a safe bet, as are sunflowers. Gardeners looking for new ideas can look to roadsides, said Janet Marinelli of the Brooklyn Botanic Garden. Even during a normal season, roadside plants, such as goldenrod and black-eyed Susans, thrive on much sunshine and little water. Brown must give special consideration to where flowerbeds and shrubbery are placed -- no matter the species -- because four of the six water spouts available in her century-old park are located on its southern border. Despite the last several years of dry weather, the country is getting wetter overall, said Jay Lawrimore, chief of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's climate monitoring branch. Between 1900 and 2000, annual precipitation increased .17 inches every decade across the nation. The rate is even higher for the Northeast, the data show. Part of the upward trend, however, may come from a higher frequency of heavy storms, which some believe is directly related to global warming. This year's drought, Lawrimore said, was probably caused by a warming of water temperatures in the Pacific Ocean known as El Nino. All of this falls particularly hard on city plants, which already face a life made stressful by pollution and heavy foot traffic, said David Bulpitt, a soil expert and part owner of Brookside Nurseries in Darien, Conn. Just by walking around, park visitors compact soil, making it less absorbent. Erosion, intensified by a city's pavement, can wash away nutrient-rich top soil. Add a drought and the plants begin to suffer. ``This is a unique drought in the sense that it's been dry during the fall and winter, which is usually the time of year when you have the most abundant moisture,'' Bulpitt said. ``Snow in the winter is much more beneficial at boosting the moisture content of soil because snow melts slowly and seeps in gradually and wets the soil more thoroughly.'' But this past winter was the second-warmest on record (records began in the late 1800s). For the Eastern Seaboard it was, as far as anyone knows, the least snowiest ever. ``The reality is our weather patterns are changing,'' said Brown, who works indoors occasionally, planning plantings and balancing her budget. In the past few years a new gizmo has taken a prominent place on her desk, she said. ``I've become obsessed with the weather radio.'' (EDITORS: There is no charge for use of this story, but please send a tearsheet to Professor Stephen D. Isaacs, Columbia News Service, Graduate School of Journalism, Columbia University, 2950 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10027.) 
