On the eve of the Nets' most significant game in 18 years, Jason Kidd stood up during Wednesday's film session and challenged his teammates to be aggressive and seize the future. The message was brief and unequivocal: Win. Now or never. The Nets face elimination or elation Thursday night in Game 5 against Indiana at Continental Arena in their quest for their first victory in a playoff series since 1984. With their season in jeopardy and their character in question after a dreadful 97-74 defeat to the Pacers in Game 4, Kidd delivered a rare speech to his teammates. ``It was a kind of a `see what we're made of' tone,'' Nets coach Byron Scott said, referring to Kidd's two-minute speech as stern but not angry. The message was simple: ``Guys got to step up. We've all got to play our best basketball tomorrow.'' Scott said some players were surprised by Kidd's words, but they all seemed to get the message. ``We all just looked around and knew what needed to be done,'' Richard Jefferson said. ``He's our leader; you have to follow him. He let people know there's really nothing else. Forty-eight minutes will decide your whole season.'' Some leaders yell, some say nothing, others pick their spots, Jefferson said. ``The day before a Game 5 is a good time to pick your spot to get everybody going,'' he said. Kidd was named to the all-NBA first team Wednesday. His remarks were intended to inspire his teammates to avoid being the third top-seeded team to lose to an eighth-seeded team in the first round of the playoffs. Only the Knicks in 1999 and the Denver Nuggets in 1994 have upset top-seeded teams. ``If we don't come out and play like this is our last game, it will be an early vacation,'' Kidd said. According to Scott, the Nets already took one in Game 4. Kidd shot only 4 of 15 from the field and had few passing options because the Nets lacked urgency and crispness in their cuts to the basket. Instead, they settled for jump shots or one-on-one play when the offense broke down. For the first three games, Kidd led the Nets in scoring, averaging 23 points and shooting 47.7 percent from the field. But Tuesday night, Kidd, who was fighting a cold, scored only 10 points. Kenyon Martin, with 13 points, was the only other Net to reach double figures. Kerry Kittles, Keith Van Horn and Todd MacCulloch had only 13 field-goal attempts and combined to score 15 points. Van Horn took four shots, and the Pacers' defenders rarely allowed him to catch the ball in the paint. ``I just want to make my adjustments,'' Van Horn said. ``I didn't make them the last game as early as I should have.'' Scott said: ``Guys have got to take responsibility for their own game. We just got guys who are being a little bit too passive. Guys are starting to look for Jason and Kenyon to get it done. We can't do that.'' The Nets had a chance to win the series Tuesday, but they instead sustained the worst playoff loss in their history, in the margin of defeat and points scored. It came in a game in which the Pacers' Jermaine O'Neal and Reggie Miller were not even in peak form, scoring 14 points each. Ron Artest and Austin Croshere led Indiana with 18 points apiece. Artest scored the game's first points and never cooled off. And Croshere scored nine points in a decisive 21-8 run in the third quarter. ``Remember me?'' Croshere, a key contributor in the 2000 playoffs, said after the game. Pacers coach Isiah Thomas said Tuesday that the pressure was on the Nets because they are the top-seeded team. Wednesday, several Nets disputed Thomas' remark. ``The pressure is on both teams,'' Van Horn said. ``Whoever loses, they're out.'' The last time Kidd was ``aggressive with his words,'' Scott said, the team responded. It was March 13, after the Nets lost at Boston, 97-89, when the Nets also settled for jump shots and passive play. But they beat Miami, 97-78, in the next game. Rod Thorn, the Nets' president, said: ``This could be a big step for them, and it would be a big step for a young team like ourselves. We've gone a long way in validating that we have a chance to be a successful franchise in the future, and winning this series and going on would help that. Being successful is going out and winning big games.'' Scott said: ``Other than Game 7 in the NBA finals, this is it, this is the biggest test that you're going to face. You find out about everything, you find out what guys are really made of.'' Scott knows Kidd will need help to keep the season going. ``This is what you want your superstars for, Game 5, when it's all on the line,'' he said. After winning 52 games during the regular season, including 33 at Continental Arena, the Nets know that a first-round playoff loss would spoil their season. ``We don't want to be a one-hit wonder,'' Scott said. ``We want to have staying power.'' 
