An electoral sham such as the referendum on his rule that the president of Pakistan, General Pervez Musharraf, staged yesterday ought to be regarded as a political variation on hypocrisy: the tribute vice pays to virtue. The referendum was not a genuine election in any sense. The only choice it gave voters was to approve Musharraf's rule for another five years or disapprove. Moreover, political parties and human rights groups complained that the claimed turnout rate _ 70 percent _ and the final yes vote for Musharraf _ more than 97 percent _ were ludicrously inflated. The critics also alleged that civil servants were pressured to cast ballots for Musharraf and that ballot-stuffing was observed at several voting sites. The only value to such an exercise in electoral make-believe is that it betrays a guilty conscience about Musharraf's lack of democratic legitimacy. His hollow referendum implies a tacit recognition that he ought to seek the consent of the governed. It is particularly regrettable that Musharraf chose to hold his phony referendum because in other ways he has shown an impressive determination to rescue Pakistani society from the corruption, impoverishment, and social disorder bequeathed to the country by his predecessors, whether elected prime ministers or military officers who seized power by force. Not only has Musharraf signed up with Washington in its war against terrorism; he has acted decisively to purge the officer corps of the Pakistani Army as well as the country's powerful Inter-Service Intelligence agency of Islamic extremists and their sympathizers. At the same time, he has undertaken the difficult but indispensable process of clamping down on the religious schools, called madrassas, where young boys from destitute families are fed and housed while being taught rote lessons in Koranic scripture and indoctrinated for holy war. Musharraf understands that for his campaign against these fundamentalist madrassas to succeed, Pakistan must transform its educational system from top to bottom. At a high-powered conference on education here in Boston last month, Pakistani academics and ministers solicited help from American educators and from Pakistani-Americans, with their considerable talents and resources. Beyond education, there are other tasks of rehabilitation that Pakistan needs to accomplish, among them the creation of an independent judiciary, the shaping of an apolitical civil service, and a reform of political parties that enables them to exercise internal democracy, electing their leaders. The Bush administration should be encouraging Musharraf to promote these and other democratic reforms and to give Pakistanis a real say in choosing their government _ before 2007. 
