WASHINGTON --Rep. Saxby Chambliss' remarks this week downplaying the chances of a terrorist attack on nuclear facilities are stirring concern among some lawmakers and nuclear safety proponents. In an interview with CNN Crossfire host Paul Begala Tuesday, the Georgia Republican said, ``the likelihood of an attack on a nuclear plant that allows it to emanate and distribute nuclear waste is not nearly as serious as what a lot of folks make it out to be.'' The comment was in response to a question about the White House Office of Management and Budget rejecting a request from the Department of Energy for $379.8 million to improve security at its nuclear research laboratories. Given Chambliss' prominent position as the chairman of subcommittee on terrorism and homeland security of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, the comments raised questions. ``From admissions made by al-Qaida's operatives to the diagrams of nuclear reactors found in caves of Afghanistan, we know that terrorists are intent on attacking U.S. nuclear facilities and intent on building dirty bombs or homemade nuclear weapons,'' said Rep. Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.), chairman of the House bipartisan task force on nuclear non-proliferation. ``Denying that risks to our nation's nuclear facilities exist is not going to protect America,'' Markey said. The White House decision not to fund security improvements at nuclear weapons labs is ``unconscionable.'' Georgia Democrats seized on Chambliss' comments, saying they appear to be at odds with what he has said in the past about improving security at nuclear facilities. ``Congressman Chambliss is the chair of the subcommittee on terrorism and he doesn't seem to even know the effect terrorist attack on our nuclear facilities would have,'' said Jon Anderson, executive director of the Democratic Party of Georgia. In an interview Thursday, Chambliss defended his comments. Security at nuclear weapons labs and nuclear power plants should be a top priority, he said, but the funding level needs to be reasonable. ``If we are talking about protecting the entire nuclear world, where does it end?'' asked Chambliss. ``I know we need some measure of security, but is the taxpayer willing to say we gotta have 100 percent security at every single facility in America? Where do you stop?'' As for safety at Georgia's two nuclear power plants, Chambliss said both have nuclear reactors that are built underground, beneath a concrete structure that ``is built to withstand a blow that would have to be more significant than a 767 airplane fully loaded crashing into it.'' Chambliss said the federal government needs to prioritize and evaluate before spending. ``We can spend hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars and billions of dollars protecting every single asset that we have all across America when the likelihood of attack against some of those facilities is just not that great,'' Chambliss said. Chambliss' remarks come as the House Appropriations Committee is poised to consider legislation that would supplement this year's spending by $27.1 billion to pay for national defense, homeland security and compensation to victims of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. The Department of Energy requested $379.8 million of the $27.1 billion to make major improvements at its nuclear weapons labs. Included in that request was $100.8 million to improve the ``physical security'' at the department's nuclear weapons cleanup sites, where deadly radioactive and other highly toxic materials are stored. More than half of that sum, $53.9 million, would have gone to the Savannah River site. But the White House Office of Management and Budget reduced the entire request to $26.4 million. Amy Call, spokesperson for the budget office, said the Energy Department's request is still pending. The Energy Department still has $50 million that it has not used from last fall's supplemental appropriations. The president is seeking even more money in the coming year for security--some $655 million more, Call said. Republican lawmakers defended Chambliss' remarks. Rep. Richard M. Burr (R-N.C.) said officials from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission have told the Energy and Commerce Committee, the panel he sits on, that the threat of a plane striking a nuclear power plant is not as severe as once thought. ``Rep. Chambliss is not saying in any way, shape or form that a nuclear attack is not a threat,'' Burr said. ``What he is saying is that nuclear plants are not an easy target and the facilities have the integrity to withstand a massive blow even a blow of an airliner.'' Still, Democratic lawmakers are seeking ways to add more to the Energy Department's share of this year's supplement. For support, lawmakers had to look no further than the Bush Administration's own Energy Secretary. In a March 14 letter, Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham asked OMB Director Mitchell Daniels to consider approving the full request, saying ``failure to support these urgent security requirements is a risk that would be unwise.'' Since then, Republicans and Democrats on the House Appropriations Committee have tried to work out a compromise between the Energy Department's request and the White House. Now there is concern that Chambliss' remarks will hamper that effort. ``Democrats and Republicans have unified with the secretary of energy to try and make these sites safer, and then someone who claims to be a leader on the issue comes a long with a reckless statement like this,'' said David Sirota, a spokesman for the Democrats on the committee. ``In the face of a major security threat, you would have hope he knew better than to jeopardize our efforts.'' (story can end here; optional add follows) The Department of Energy request would address only security at the government-run laboratories. There are security concerns at the nation's 103 nuclear power plants. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission, a federally funded regulator of the nuclear power plants at 65 sites, is concerned about possible attacks. ``We take the issue of security very, very seriously,'' said Victor Dricks, spokesperson for the commission. ``We have placed all of the plants at the highest state security beginning on Sept. 11th and continuing today.'' The threat of a nuclear attack at a nuclear power plant or government research lab is a top concern in Grovetown, Ga., which is about 30 miles away from the Department of Energy's Savannah River Plant and about 35 miles away from the Vogtle Nuclear Plant run by the Georgia Power Company. ``We're right here in the shadow,'' said Dennis Trudeau, mayor of Grovetown's 6,000 residents. While security as been improved at both sites since the Sept. 11 attacks, Trudeau is concerned that it is not enough. ``They have a long way to go,'' Trudeau said. ``I think Mr. Chambliss is not really thinking about what an explosion at one of these plants could do to our country./././ Money shouldn't be the object. It should be about saving lives.'' Danielle Brian, executive director of the Project On Government Oversight, said the threat of a nuclear attack should not be discounted. ``There are tremendous vulnerabilities that exist and these things are things you can't wish away,'' Brian said. David Albright, president of the Institute for Science and International Security, said he agrees with Chambliss that the probability of a plane flying into a nuclear reactor is low. But Albright points out that the probability that hijackers would turn planes into missiles on Sept. 11th to attack the World Trade Center and the Pentagon was low before it happened. ``The problem is, if it did happen, the consequences would be profound--It would be a little bit like Chernobyl in the United States,'' Albright said. Rebecca Carr's e-mail address is rcarr(at)coxnews.com ENDIT Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
