Can Mark Shuttleworth, the South African who this week is enjoying a rather expensive holiday in space, tempt more students to study science? After his return to earth on May 5, Shuttleworth plans to tour South Africa to convince the young that science is hip. He will have his work cut out for him. Although employers yearn for math and science graduates, students prefer softer disciplines such as public administration and the humanities. Only 15 percent of youngsters, half the rate of a rich country like Britain, make it to campus, and only one in six of these actually earns a degree, Education Minister Kader Asmal says. For black South Africans, the figures are even worse. The problem starts in schools, where exam results are poor, not least because a whole generation of students boycotted classes to protest against apartheid. But the universities' misuse of resources plays its part. ``We are not getting value for money,'' Asmal says. Quite a lot of money is being spent: A fifth of last year's national budget went for education _ about the same amount the country spent in the apartheid years, although then it was wildly skewed toward white South Africans. Today a useful $66 million a year goes for higher education alone. But this is split between 36 universities and technical schools, many of them small and run down, with overlapping courses and remote campuses. Good universities outside the cities, such as Eastern Cape's Fort Hare university, find it hard to attract capable students or lecturers. Only 532 of Fort Hare's 7,000 students graduated this year, only a handful of them with a master's degree or doctorate. Its prestigious alumni _ who include Nelson Mandela, Oliver Tambo, Govan Mbeki and Robert Mugabe _ would be shocked. The solution is simple, according to a working group that looked at higher education earlier this year: Use the resources more effectively. Under apartheid there were separate colleges for whites and blacks, often near each other. Many of these should now be merged, and others, particularly in the old black homelands, should be closed: A finger points, for instance, at the indebted, poorly attended University of Transkei. As many as 15 institutions could go without damage, says businessman Saki Macozoma, who led the working group. Unsurprisingly, the group's recommendations provoked fierce protests. Staff members, seeing their jobs vanishing, complain that the mostly white universities would survive unscathed. Why, they ask, should only black-dominated ones be chopped? Because, Macozoma says, ``the brightest and the best black students have already voted with their feet,'' fleeing the old black colleges. Asmal agrees, and this week took his plans for radical change, including mergers and closures, to the cabinet. But the reforms will be difficult to push through. Some ministers are reluctant to see their old schools disappear, and the cabinet postponed making a decision for two weeks. Asmal is already trapped in one contentious attempt to bring together three distance-learning universities. He had hoped that this merger would go smoothly, but reluctant university staff are being uncooperative, despite legal threats and warnings that subsidies will be cut. This bodes ill for the wider, necessary changes to a higher-education system that still needs a lot more than Shuttleworth's good will to become world class. 
