A study that was initiated after thousands of broodmares aborted mysteriously last year has shown a higher level of abortions by broodmares exposed to Eastern tent caterpillars and the caterpillars' waste. Preliminary findings from the study by the University of Kentucky, released Wednesday, may provide some evidence as to what caused the outbreak of mare reproductive loss syndrome in central Kentucky last spring. What might be in the caterpillars' waste, called frass, that could have caused the syndrome remains unknown. Caterpillars eat the leaves of black cherry trees, which have a high cyanide content. Last year, it was theorized that the caterpillars somehow transferred the cyanide to the pastures and water troughs where mares graze and drink. But studies by Bruce Webb, a professor of entomology who heads the project, indicate that this does not happen. ``The caterpillars metabolize the cyanide and don't excrete it,'' he said. The syndrome resulted in the termination of pregnancies in an estimated 5,100 mares of various breeds last year. The region's thoroughbred industry alone suffered 516 late-term foal losses and 2,998 early fetal losses. Total financial losses were estimated at $336 million. So far there have been no reports of the syndrome's return to central Kentucky horse farms this year. Webb and Karen McDowell, an associate professor of veterinary science at the university's Maxwell H. Gluck Equine Research Center, separated 29 pregnant test mares into three groups in enclosed pastures. In one group, 10 mares were exposed for six hours daily to increasingly high levels of tent caterpillars and their frass, and six of them aborted. In a second group, nine mares were exposed only to the frass and six aborted. In a third group of 10 mares, attempts were made to eliminate exposing them to any tent caterpillars or frass, yet three aborted. Webb acknowledged that the first two groups were exposed to much higher populations of caterpillars _ in the tens of thousands _ than would be found even under abnormal conditions. 
