Size apparently matters. If the Internet can be used as a gauge of the collective male psyche, plenty of men want abs of steel, more hair and a larger penis. Google, a popular search engine, recently retrieved 119,000 Web site matches for the term ``penis enlargement.'' Many companies selling potions, pills and pumps promise everything from ``three inches or more'' to ``stronger more toned sexual glands.'' Some diets even claim to increase the girth of the male sex organ. And many urologists perform an operation to enlarge the penis. But bigger may not be better. Men around the country have filed a flurry of lawsuits against doctors they say botched procedures, leaving them disfigured and in pain, and often with penises smaller than they started with. The Food and Drug Administration has received complaints about loosely regulated herbal supplements that promise increased size but don't deliver. And yet Internet message boards are filled with postings from men asking the same question: can the penis be made bigger, and if so, which way is best? Herbal supplements offer the promise of quick results without surgery or a pumping device. Companies that sell supplements have come under scrutiny, however, and skepticism about their products' effectiveness is spreading. Penis Enlargement Magazine, a Web magazine that receives 20,000 views a day, recently ran a feature article about the efficacy of penis enlargement pills. After interviewing several users of the supplements, the magazine determined that ``enlargement pills by themselves do not produce dramatic size gains.'' The Food and Drug Administration does not require manufacturers of dietary supplements to submit their products for review, a spokeswoman said. Rather, the onus is on the manufacturer to ensure their safety and effectiveness. In fact, the government has no data to support the effectiveness of penis enlargement pills. For this reason, the Food and Drug Administration emphatically encourages consumers to consult their physicians before taking such pills. Most penis pill manufacturers suggest taking three tablets a day indefinitely, with a month's supply usually costing about $60. ``It's ridiculous to think that there is a pill to make you bigger,'' said Oliver Esperham, the director of marketing at Dr. Joel Kaplan Inc., a San Diego company that makes a popular penis enlargement pump available on the Internet. Esperham said the company's business decreased as herbal pills increased in popularity. Kaplan has been in business for 10 years, Esperham said, receiving 30 phone orders a day. The cylindrical pumps, in manual and electrical models, cost $250 to $600 and are mailed in boxes marked ``Aquarium Equipment.'' Kaplan says its pump can add one to three inches to the length of the penis, but its Web site also tells potential customers to ``stay away from pills, inexpensive novelty vacuum pumps and surgery.'' But the Food and Drug Administration does not support Kaplan's contention that its pumps increase penis size. The agency wrote a two-page letter to Kaplan last June, warning the company not to make product claims beyond the scope of its federal approval as a device intended to create and maintain penile erection in impotent men. Esperham said the company had been working with the government to obtain approval to market the device as a penis enlarger. ``Personally, I wouldn't want a scalpel near my penis,'' he said. Doctors might disagree. ``Pumps and pills don't work,'' said Dr. E. Douglas Whitehead, clinical professor of urology at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine at Yeshiva University in New York City. ``And it's a real shame because some of these patients who end up having penile enlargement surgery have spent thousands of dollars on these products.'' Whitehead, who performs penis enlargement procedures twice a week and says they make up 98 percent of his business, charges about $4,000 to increase length and $8,000 to increase girth. Whitehead said that he cautions his patients, many of whom are married and in their 30s, to reduce their expectations for the operation. By cutting the ligaments that attach the penis to the pubic bone, Whitehead said, an extra inch of skin is exposed. To increase girth, Whitehead grafts purified tissue from cadavers onto the penis. ``Most of the men who have this procedure have normal penile dimensions,'' he said. ``It's like women who have normal breasts; they just want to be larger.'' The American Urological Association advises men to simply leave well enough alone. The association issued a policy statement in 1994 -- and reaffirms it annually -- denouncing penis-lengthening surgery and another procedure in which fat is injected into the penis to increase girth. A spokesman for the association, Dr. Martin Resnick, said that when the procedures go badly, patients often suffer from painful infections, scarring beneath the skin and deformed erections, and they sometimes wind up with smaller penises. ``The risks far outweigh the benefits,'' said Dr. E. Darracott Vaughan, the urological association president. ``Males are always looking for a competitive edge, but this is not it.'' (EDITORS: There is no charge for use of this story, but please send a tearsheet to Professor Stephen D. Isaacs, Columbia News Service, Graduate School of Journalism, Columbia University, 2950 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10027.) 
