Thomas W. Davis, a vice chairman of Merrill Lynch &AMP; Co. who oversees the firm's research department, said Thursday that he planned to leave the firm in six months. Davis and other Merrill officials said that his resignation after 25 years with the firm was unrelated to an investigation into the potential conflicts of interest of Merrill's stock analysts. That inquiry is being conducted by Eliot L. Spitzer, the New York attorney general. But it came as Merrill executives were trying to reach a settlement with Spitzer's office that could include several changes to policies and practices of the research department. Merrill has been considering a simpler stock-rating system, in which every stock would be marked buy, hold or sell. The departure of Davis, 48, would remove one of the last vestiges of Merrill's previous management team. E. Stanley O'Neal has replaced most of the senior executives since he was named president and the likely successor to David H. Komansky, the chief executive, in July. Two other men who vied for the No. 2 job, Jeffrey M. Peek and Winthrop H. Smith Jr., left the firm in October. O'Neal was not available for comment, a Merrill spokesman said. Until September, Davis had run Merrill's investment banking and stock and bond sales and trading operations for four years. He accepted a vice chairman's job overseeing the firm's research department and its private equity business. ``My thinking has evolved over the last seven or eight months,'' Davis said in a phone interview. ``It just felt like the right time.'' But people in the firm who know Davis said that although he was loyal to Merrill, he was uncomfortable with his diminished status. Davis declined to say what he might do next or even if he planned to work elsewhere on Wall Street. He said he would stay on until November as a consultant to Komansky and O'Neal on research issues and other matters. Merrill officials have proudly noted that the firm's research department reported not to its investment banking or capital markets managers but through Davis to the firm's most senior executives. Davis said the firm had not decided to whom the research and private equity departments would report. The resignation ``can't come as too much of a surprise,'' said Guy Moszkowski, an analyst at the Salomon Smith Barney unit of Citigroup. ``He ran one of the firm's most important divisions and was taken out of that position last September.'' Moszkowski raised his rating on Merrill's stock Thursday to ``buy'' from ``outperform'' because, he said, it had fallen too far in the four weeks since Spitzer announced his investigation. ``This is strictly a valuation call,'' he said. ``The stock has given up a tremendous amount of value.'' That drop, which reached $10 billion, ``exceeded any reasonable estimate of what the research costs could be.'' 
