The way this usually works, the heady accolades follow the heady numbers, points translating into plaques without anyone giving much thought to the entire process. By all rights, and by all statistics, Kobe Bryant probably should have been an All-NBA first-team selection a year or two ago, when he was scoring in spectacular bunches, although sometimes at the expense of his Los Angeles Lakers teammates. Now, just as Bryant's scoring has tapered off, as his game has become more subtle, more cerebral, more team-first, the voters finally have decided to grant him one of the highest individual honors. Bryant was named to the All-NBA first team Wednesday, joining Shaquille O'Neal as the first teammates to make it simultaneously since Chicago's Michael Jordan and Scottie Pippen in 1996. ``I'm proud of it. I'm very proud of it,'' Bryant said. ``It's good to be recognized as one of the top five players. I've put a lot of hard work, a lot of sweat, into my basketball game.'' More than ever, he's directed that effort toward making his teammates better. Bryant brought his scoring average down three points, to 25.2, while posting career highs in assists (5.5) and field-goal percentage (.469). ``I think I just improved as a leader,'' he said. ``It's something that comes from within, just with the guys, with the team, making sure they improve. That's been my goal all season long, is making sure that Devean George and guys like Slava (Medvedenko) make the necessary strides to improve their game and help us as a basketball team, and that's been my goal since day one.'' Bryant earned 507 points and joined New Jersey's Jason Kidd (601) as the first-team guards, far outdistancing second-teamers Gary Payton of Seattle (284) and Allen Iverson of Philadelphia (272), each of whom had beaten out Bryant in the past. ``He's deserved it for a couple years,'' coach Phil Jackson said. ``First team, I know, is an accomplishment for him.'' Bryant was a second-team selection the past two years, and a third-team selection in 1999. ``I'm proud of him,'' O'Neal said. ``He's come a long way. I guess they figured he had to wait his turn, they figured he was too young.'' O'Neal, a first-teamer for the fourth time, fell one vote shy of being a unanimous selection. O'Neal and Bryant are the eighth set of Lakers to make the first team in the same season. The others: Kareem Abdul-Jabbar and Magic Johnson (1986), Elgin Baylor and Jerry West (1962, '63, '64, '67) and George Mikan and Jim Pollard (1949, '50). --Logo thoughts: No one on the Lakers roster is closer to West than O'Neal and Bryant. Curiously, neither one spoke with West anytime recently, as he made the decision to leave the Lakers to run the Memphis Grizzlies. ``I don't need to speak to him. It's all up here,'' O'Neal said, tapping his head. ``I'm sure I'll talk to him, just wish him luck,'' Bryant said. Watching West's news conference on television Tuesday, O'Neal was struck by how relaxed he appeared. ``I haven't seen him smile in a long time,'' O'Neal said. ``Yesterday during his press conference, he had a smile, so I'm happy for Mr. West. If I was a selfish man, I would be upset. But Mr. West has done a lot for me and I'm happy for him.'' --Down time: Jackson put his team through a 40-minute scrimmage Wednesday. Everyone but Samaki Walker (bone bruise, left knee) played. They will take the day off today, then resume practice Friday. The Lakers open the conference semifinals Sunday against the winner of the Seattle-San Antonio series. 
