I try not to miss a trend but I had no idea there was such growing concern over foreheads. Maybe it started with the backward baseball cap thing. That put the shine on a lot of bare domes, and maybe people started comparing and realized theirs were full of frown lines. It would have been easier to turn the cap around, but instead we've got Botox. Stories on the FDA's blessing the forehead fixer-upper were played on the front page, right next to the miseries of the Middle East and the Catholic Church, the message being: You think the world's a mess, just look at your face. I never gave a thought to my forehead. It's not that I haven't studied the map of time that looks back at me in the mirror and pondered renovation. There are mornings you'd just as soon put a dropcloth over your head and start excavating. But why all this emphasis on the cave markings above the brow? A woman I know said the same thing about her wrists. She was fine with her own until she read a story by Colette in which the middle-aged woman laments her fattened wrists. She had been tracking herself in her three-way mirror, hitching this and hoisting the obvious, unaware that her wrists were aging. A while back there was a commercial about feet, calling them women's greatest embarrassment. I missed that one, too. I never knew to feel bad about my feet. They hold me up fine in sandals and boots and on good days allow me to balance into a tree pose. I thought we were quite happy together. So it is with our foreheads. Now that Botox has gotten the go-ahead to advertise, get ready to worry about bad forehead days. A friend who's gone the Botox route paid $300 for tiny injections above and around her eyes, and it lasted about three months. Her doctor convinced her to give it a shot, so to speak, when she told him she was going to her niece's wedding. He said he could fix it so she wouldn't look tired in the family photos. After getting zapped she said she couldn't frown no matter how hard she tried. ``It was like I was paralyzed _ which I was.'' What they do is shoot a form of the toxin that causes botulism into your head. There was one warning that if someone messed up, it might spill into the wrong cavity. You might not be able to wrinkle your nose. One of my smart colleagues calls it ``a pre-embalming need'' and snaps, ``haven't these people ever heard of bangs?'' I had insider information on this new fad but didn't trust it. Years ago I interviewed a cosmetic surgeon during the lip-plumping craze and asked what he thought would be next on the list of vanity spots that need fixing. He said foreheads. I laughed. Of course, I have more moisturizers and skin lotions in my bathroom than my daughters have hair products. In the interest of full disclosure, I admit that while I was writing this, the Fed Ex man came running up the steps with my new supply of ``special force triple lifting night cream.'' A friend in L.A. says the rage is to go to the mall for a quickie facelift. You can get Botox or collagen injections or a microdermabrasion on your lunch hour. Only in L.A., I sniffed, until a week later in my very own newspaper comes an ad for the same thing _ Botox lunch breaks. I thought it said ``box lunch'' and grabbed the first person I saw and told her, expecting a laugh. She didn't smile. She didn't frown. She said people who say they like their laugh lines are either in denial or afraid of needles. (Susan Swartz is a columnist for The Press Democrat in Santa Rosa, Calif. The Press Democrat is a member of the New York Times Regional Newspaper Group.) 
