On a day when Congress moved to express unqualified political solidarity with Israel, the Bush administration committed itself Thursday to join Europe, Russia and the United Nations in a conference on Middle East peace early this summer. Such a conference would amount to the administration's riskiest and most direct effort yet to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, and comes as President Bush finds himself having to navigate complicated political crosscurrents both at home and abroad. In one small sign of the challenges that lie ahead, Bush, meeting Thursday with senior European officials, repeated his commitment to the establishment of a new Palestinian state, but warned that it could not be built ``on a foundation of terror and corruption.'' But Bush also issued an implicit challenge to Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel, who is to meet Bush here early next week, by noting that any Palestinian state could only result from ``negotiating an end to occupation.'' Sharon still has tanks and troops in Bethlehem and insists on his right to raid Palestinian towns to crack down on terrorism. Members of Congress voted overwhelmingly Thursday to express virtually unqualified support for Israel in its recent military operations in the West Bank. Officials said almost all details about the international conference remained vague, though it would involve foreign ministers and not heads of state. There has been talk of such a conference for weeks, but until Thursday many in the Bush administration, including the president, had seemed lukewarm about such a gathering, saying that to succeed, it would require a clear agenda and concrete goals. Last week Bush heard strong demands from Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia for greater American involvement in seeking peace, and Sharon floated the idea of a regional peace conference last month. The announcement Thursday, by Secretary of State Colin Powell, came as a surprise after meetings with foreign leaders here. Speaking to reporters at the State Department, Powell said the conference would address issues of security, economic reform, humanitarian needs and the ``political way forward.'' He added: ``They all have to be integrated, and I think that's one of the agreements we came to today, and I hope it's something that the parties in the region will welcome, moving aggressively forward so that people see not only economic hope, but they see political hope as we move forward toward our vision of a Palestinian state.'' The announcement marked a potential turning point in months of fitful efforts by the administration that have yielded some recent progress. Israel released Yasser Arafat from months of confinement after an American-brokered deal this week, and both Bush and Powell said Arafat now ``has the opportunity to show leadership,'' as Powell put it. Administration officials acknowledged the risks inherent in announcing a conference when so much about it remains unsettled. They took pains to say its mandate would not be as sweeping as that of the Madrid conference convened in 1991 by Bush's father, which began a decade of promising diplomacy. By inviting only foreign ministers, organizers will for the moment avoid Sharon's refusal to negotiate with Arafat. ``This is not the big kahuna,'' one senior administration official said. ``It's part of the process: to gather ideas, pull together the best of what we've got to create some momentum, and figure out how we move forward.'' Another administration official summed up the issue this way: ``Everybody agrees the idea of a conference is a good one. Now we've just got to decide who attends, when it is, where it is, and what are the preconditions for making it successful. ``In the handbook of the Middle East, conferences are good. That said, you've got to have preconditions, and you have to have some restoration of trust and confidence between the two sides to make it work.'' Powell was joined by the secretary-general of the United Nations, Kofi Annan; the Russian foreign minister, Igor Ivanov; and top officials of the European Union. The group has taken to calling itself the Quartet as it discusses the Middle East, and Powell said Thursday they were ``committed to working with the Israelis and the Palestinians, with Arab governments and with the international community, to restore the hope of all the people in the region for a peaceful, secure and prosperous future.'' Bush's comments about the shape of a future Palestinian state were the first in which he urged Arafat to purge his administration of the corruption that is the source of much criticism from Palestinians themselves. ``A Palestinian state must be achieved by negotiating an end to occupation,'' Bush said in the East Room of the White House, ``but such a state cannot be based on a foundation of terror or corruption.'' Participants in the discussion Thursday between Bush and leaders of the European Union said Bush's remarks reflected their concern that aid provided to the Palestinians would be wasted or, in the words of one European, ``end up in a Swiss bank account next week.'' One senior administration official said nations that would be asked to help reconstruct Palestinian civil institutions and security forces would ``not be willing to pay for an inefficient, corrupt bureaucracy that has ties to terrorism.'' Bush cited several recent hopeful signs in the Middle East, including the deal that ended the Israeli siege of Arafat's compound in exchange for the dispatch of British and American wardens to oversee custody of six Palestinians who had been confined there and were wanted by Israel. The president said work continued to end another standoff between the Palestinians and Israelis, at the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem. ``I'm optimistic we're making good progress,'' Bush said. ``After all, a week ago Yasser Arafat was boarded up in this building in Ramallah,'' he said. ``He's now free to show leadership.'' 
