It had nothing to do with the ``Sneak out of Work'' disguise glasses they were handing out at the front door. Redding stayed ahead in the pitch count. He threw his 93-mph fastball with confidence, occasionally mixing an off-speed pitch here and there to keep batters honest. What about those two previous poor outings after being called up from the minor leagues? He didn't even think about them. Redding tossed a two-hitter for six innings, and the Astros' offense had a coming-out party to avoid a three-game sweep with an 8-2 victory over the Montreal Expos. ``I was just getting the ball and going at the glove, not worrying about who was at the plate, not worrying if I missed my spots or what I was going to do the next pitch,'' Redding said. Redding had some help from the Killer Bs. Craig Biggio, Jeff Bagwell and Lance Berkman combined to go 8-for-13 with two homers and six RBIs. Gregg Zaun added a two-run double during a five-run sixth inning that broke a 1-1 tie. The 15 hits by the Astros tied a season high. ``I think we kind of broke through,'' said Berkman, who reached base in all five of his plate appearances. ``We haven't been swinging the bats real good lately. This team has a lot of offensive talent, and it was just a matter of time until we had an inning like that. It's never fun when you're not hitting up to your capabilities, especially when you're not winning games. Hopefully, we can build on this.'' The worry-free approach worked for Redding, who was pounded in his first two starts against San Francisco and Atlanta after being called up from Class AAA New Orleans. Redding allowed a second-inning double, a third-inning single and two walks in an otherwise unblemished start. The Expos' only run off Redding came on an infield grounder by Jose Vidro in the third. Following a two-out walk to Vladimir Guerrero in the third, Redding retired the final 10 batters he faced. Redding was even consistent in how he recorded his 18 outs Thursday: six fly balls, six ground balls and six strikeouts. In his two losses, Redding allowed nine earned runs, 13 hits and never made it past the third inning. ``With Wade (Miller) out, we need him to pick us up,'' Zaun said. ``It's important for him to get a good start and help this club. We can't afford to be swept at home. He needed to pick us up, and he needed to pick himself up.'' Redding did so almost exclusively with his fastball. Of his 87 pitches, all but 18 were fastballs. He recorded five of his outs via breaking balls, including a wicked 78-mph curveball to Brian Schneider in the second inning. ``It was pretty much typical of the way I pitch,'' said Redding, who lowered his ERA from 16.20 to 8.18. ``I have a plus-fastball in this league and can throw a two- or four-seamer. If I can get ahead with those, it makes the other pitches so much more effective. They weren't quite sure what was coming.'' With the score tied at 1, Redding threw a first-pitch strike and got Guerrero to hit a lazy foul ball in front of the Astros' dugout on the next pitch, just out of the reach of a sliding Bagwell. Redding then delivered the knockout punch by getting Guerrero to chase a 93-mph fastball that was nearly at eye level. ``We talked about elevating the ball on Guerrero,'' Zaun said. ``He's a great low-ball hitter and has such great bat speed. If he does have a weak spot, it might be upstairs.'' The Astros started the offensive parade early. Biggio sent the second pitch from Carl Pavano into the Crawford Boxes for his 30th career leadoff homer. Biggio went 3-for-5 with three RBIs. The Astros broke the game open with five runs in the sixth, their largest single-inning outburst since April 3, their second game of the season. With the bases loaded and one out, Biggio hit a two-run single to left off Pavano. Zaun followed with a two-run double down the left-field line off reliever Britt Reames for a 5-1 lead. Berkman added an RBI single, his 30th RBI of the season. Biggio doubled in the eighth inning and Bagwell followed two batters later with his fourth homer of the season. Bagwell, who entered 0-for-8 in the series, had two hits. ``I expect a lot more out of myself than what I've put out on the field so far,'' Bagwell said. 
