To put it bluntly, if NATO, the military arm of the trans-Aatlantic alliance, had not existed in the post-Sept. 11 world, would anyone be seeking to invent it? Not in its present form, it has to be said. But though the dangers facing Americans and Europeans have changed, the need for collective defense against them has not. The next terrorist attack could strike Berlin or Paris as easily as New York or Washington. These and other threats, in an age of far-flying missiles, could come from anywhere. So NATO needs to be better prepared to deal with them, ready at times to venture beyond its European stomping grounds. In other words, if it is to soldier on usefully, the alliance needs to reinvent itself. The new design is needed by its next summit, in Prague in November. NATO has changed a lot since the end of the Cold War, but the world has changed faster. Later this month, alliance foreign ministers will start the debate about its future, and will also invite Russia, their old Cold War enemy, to join its discussions on some matters of common concern. Russia has long thought NATO should do more talking than soldiering. That is not what the foreign ministers are going to say they intend: They want a militarily more capable NATO. Willing the end is one thing, however, and willing the means quite another. Nay-sayers cite America's impatience with NATO-led peacekeeping duty in the Balkans and its frustration with war-by-committee in Kosovo. Now that America sees terrorism and weapons of mass destruction as the chief threats to its security, Europe's lack of high-tech weaponry and its inability to get troops quickly to faraway battles hobbles the alliance. America's unrivaled military power meant it could choose _ and indeed preferred _ to take on al-Qaeda and the Taliban mostly alone. Meanwhile, the Bush administration's determination to confront Saddam Hussein has attracted little overt allied support, except from Britain. Some Europeans would be happy to take the Balkans and let America deal with the rest. The flaws in this ought to be most obvious in Europe. Even with the formation of a 60,000-strong, EU-sponsored rapid-reaction force _ promised for next year but unlikely to be ready _ Europeans would be woefully ill-equipped to march off on their own. Indeed the EU force was conceived of by Britain to get the Europeans to pull more weight in NATO and, in the process, to win more say in how it is run. More must be done, and more quickly, to find the mobile, readily deployable forces NATO needs, and the ships and aircraft to move them. The Europeans need not do everything that America does, but one way or another they all need to be ready to do their bit, and to pay for it. Spending their defense budgets more wisely, pooling this and bolting together that, can help. But in the end more capability will cost more. It is not enough, of course, for the Europeans to want NATO to thrive. America must want it too. Inevitably, as the battle lines have moved from the heart of Europe to its horizons and beyond, militarily the alliance no longer seems all-important to America. Yet it is far from useless. Those who fault NATO for not running more of the war in Afghanistan forget that America did not call on it to run the Gulf war either. But in these two very different campaigns it was NATO's planning and joint training that gave America the ability to call on its allies' soldiers and skills when it needed them. Lose that capability, and even mighty America would notice. But NATO is not simply a handy military tool. In Kosovo, it mattered a lot that it was not only the world's most powerful country but also 19 of its most respected democracies that stood firm against the marauding Serb army. NATO won the military campaign in 78 days, with remarkably few casualties even among the enemy. Its collective moral weight also helped turn the political tide in Serbia against Slobodan Milosevic and forced others, including Russia, to think hard about where they stood in Europe. As the debate over how to deal with Iraq shows, forging an alliance consensus will not always be easy, but it is very much worth the effort. If NATO is to remain effective, it needs to think harder about what holds it together: its integrated military structure and its mutual-defense guarantee. Stretch these too far and it will unravel. Before Sept. 11 America was inclined to scoop in as many new recruits as possible at Prague: Slovenia, Slovakia, the three Baltic states, Bulgaria and Romania are all mentioned. But if it is to take on new tasks, NATO needs newcomers with real capabilities. By November some of the would-be-ins will measure up, and some will not. Bringing them all in willy-nilly would weaken the alliance. NATO's future will be what its members choose to make it. Unless Americans and Europeans can agree that it has useful jobs to do _ and then make the hard decisions on new capabilities and members _ the world's most successful military alliance might soon call it a day. 
