ATLANTA _ President Bush approval rating drops to 75 percent If Daschle &AMP; Co. keep chipping away at Bush's popularity, they're likely to avoid a stomping and end up with a plain whupping. Proving the governor knows something we don't: Incumbent governor of a one-party state with no party opposition begins airing campaign commercials six months before the primary. How could the Holocaust have happened? Pay attention to anti-Semitism roiling Europe. (at) Wits' End's `` Time'' from a reader on the other side: Liberals are fearless, confident of humanity, outgoing and optimistic because they believe most people are pretty much like themselves. Conservatives are fearful, mistrusting, angry, bitter and afraid because they, too, believe most people are pretty much like themselves. Help for Coke: Entries in the Coke slogan/jingle writing contest demonstrate that it ain't as easy as it looks: Runners-up: Coke _ Hey, somebody's got to drink it! _ Casey Musselman Things go wetter with Coke (think of hip, edgy visuals almost any adman could come up with). _ Dave Rosselle The winning slogan: Coke! You'd have to be Daft not to like it! _ Roger Piatt The winning jingle: ``Our ad campaign needs staffing. The Pepsi folks are laughing. But here's a likely killer: First New Coke, now Vanilla.'' _Les Gable (at) Wits' End Maxims: Courage comes too late to those who wait for the danger to pass. To get past the gobbledygook, don't relinquish the remote. When dubious, act boldly. When confident, act carefully. When you have no earthly idea, sit quietly and let someone else figure it out. CDC responds to (at) Wits' End, and vice versa: Conceded: Smoking is not good for you; can cause lung cancer and contribute to heart disease. Plus it stinks up your house, car, clothes and hair. Stop it! However, secondhand smoke . . . ``We don't necessarily know if an individual died from secondhand smoke.'' (4/23/02 CDC e-mail response to (at) Wits' End questions) The way secondhand smoke contributes to death from heart disease: It triggers a heart attack. Someone with heart disease goes into a smoky bar for 30 minutes. Excluding the drinks, bending over to tie his shoes, etc., if he drops dead in the parking lot, then it's a ``biological plausibility'' that the ``30-minute exposure'' to secondhand smoke caused him to suffer a heart attack. The infant deaths attributed to secondhand smoke are not those caused by the mother smoking in the house while baby sleeps in the crib, but rather the ``secondhand smoke'' the baby received in utero. (This is like calling fetal alcohol syndrome ``secondhand drinking.'') Warning: The surgeon general has determined that smoking while pregnant may cause SIDS. Therefore, the surgeon general suggests that you don't smoke, or use a condom. Thomas Oliver is a member of The Atlanta Journal-Constitution editorial board. His (at) Wits' End column is actually part of his job. He can be reached at toliver(at)ajc.com. Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
