The smell of tear gas and cordite mingles with incense inside the ancient nave of the Church of the Nativity. The sound of Franciscan priests gathering to celebrate morning Mass _ as they have for centuries _ mixed with the sound of Palestinian Muslim civilians and fighters lining up for Islam's daily call to prayer. Israeli machine-gun fire shattered stained glass windows, and Palestinian militia members broke up church pews to fashion them as barricades against Israeli forces. These scenes described Wednesday by several Palestinian civilians and police released earlier this week from the fourth-century basilica offer a glimpse of what daily life has been like during the monthlong siege around one of Christianity's holiest sites and one of the thorniest flash points of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Before dawn Wednesday, the fighting flared again around the church. There were loud bursts of machine-gun fire, explosions, and a blaze that appeared to break out inside a part of the Church of the Nativity compound. The flames were extinguished relatively quickly and it was impossible to assess the extent of any damage, but Palestinians immediately accused Israeli forces of trying to raid the church. ``There is no shooting coming from inside the church,'' the governor of Bethlehem, Mohammed Al Madane, told the Arabic language Al Jazeera television network. ``The Israelis have sent flares and tracer shells in and around the church. They are doing psychological warfare.'' Israeli military officials denied the charges, saying Wednesday night that the fire had been set by militants inside the church. As of Wednesday, about 200 people _ including priests, nuns, and a mix of Palestinian civilians and policemen and armed militiamen _ remained inside the church as intense negotiations continued through the night to end the standoff between the Israeli military and the 50 armed Palestinian gunmen whom Israel is demanding to have arrested before it will roll back any tanks. The Church of the Nativity _ where it is believed Jesus was born in a stone grotto now marked with a silver star set in gray marble _ has been caught in the middle. The conflict began April 2, when Israeli tanks and troops pushed up into Manger Square and opened fire. Church officials say that's when Palestinian police and a group of about 50 gunmen from a militant Palestinian faction forced their way through the church doors to seek refuge along with the priests and nuns, and some civilians who live and work inside the church. Palestinian officials say that Israeli tanks then surrounded the church and trained their turrets directly on the shrine, and have used sniper fire to prevent anyone from entering or exiting the church until militants of the armed faction give themselves up. The 26 men released Tuesday as part of an agreement worked out by Israel and the Palestinian Authority were taken by Israeli forces to a nearby headquarters to be interrogated and examined before their release. By midday Wednesday many of those men were milling at the Hussein Hospital in Bethlehem, sporting thick beards and still wearing the clothes they had worn throughout the siege. They traded stories and cigarettes and munched on pita bread handed out by the hospital. Hassan Shahadi, 54, a member of the Palestinian national police who described himself as ``an old struggler with the PLO,'' was hooked up to an intravenous drip for dehydration as he spoke of life inside the church. ``People are afraid to come out,'' Shahadi said. ``They are afraid that as soon as they put their head out the door, the Israelis will shoot them. Some of us just decided to take a chance. An agreement was made and they let us walk out.'' Shahadi and other men said the Franciscan priests prepared food _ mostly rice and beans _ for the group of men inside. Despite reports that the men were being starved, they said that small meals were enough for them and that they never went hungry. Meals were served on the church floor. Because the Israeli's cut off electricity, the men lived by the light of church votive candles. At night, they huddled together on rugs that cover ancient mosaic tiles. The armed fighters who brought their weapons into the church refused the priests' requests to surrender their weapons. They slept with their guns by their side and took turns as watchmen. Mohammed Abu Armis, 28, a construction worker, said he was in Manger Square after serving guard duty over construction materials at the site when the shooting started the day the seige began. He saw policemen and civilians running for the doors of the Church of the Nativity, and so he joined them. ``I was scared,'' Abu Armis said. ``The priests opened the door for us. They welcomed us. They assured us this was a holy place and that we were safe.'' ``I think it is the most beautiful holy place in the world,'' he added. ``You can say it is now holy for us Muslims as well as Christians. I will return to pray. For two reasons, the martyrs who died there and the protection we received.'' This emotional sentiment expressed by some Palestinian Muslims about the Christian church is remarkable, observers said. It has even concerned some Palestinian Christians that in a region where religious sites are often passionately guarded, some Muslims may seek to control the church. ``This is an extremely grave violation of this holy place, one that has no precedence in history,'' said the Rev. David Yaeger, a Franciscan priest who is a Vatican lawyer and was sent by Rome to try to end the standoff. Abu Mousa, a 20-year-old policeman, reflected the opinions of many of the people holed up inside, saying that he felt the experience would strengthen bonds between Palestinian Muslims, who make up the majority of the population, and the 2 percent minority of Palestinian Christians who live mainly in the Bethlehem area. 
