But, finally, here it is, and it was worth the wait. The sure-to-be summer blockbuster that opens Friday at a cost of some $100 million to $120 million (some analysts place the figure as high as $150 million) is everything a ``Spidey'' fan could want, and then some. And though it's rated PG-13 and much too violent for the small children who are the primary targets of its massive merchandising campaign, there seems little doubt that its appeal will transcend the comic cult and speak to a vast general audience. As a special-effects-o-rama, it's particularly impressive. Not only does it thrillingly raise the bar once again on what can be done with computer-generated graphics, it showcases its visuals with intelligence, good taste, a flawless pace and a keen storytelling sense. Adapted by David Koepp (using an extended treatment by James Cameron), the film spends the first of its two hours establishing the character of meek teenager Peter Parker (Tobey Maguire), who acquires certain super powers after being bitten by a spider one day on a field trip. At the same time, it tells the story of industrialist Norman Osborn (Willem Dafoe), a kind of corporate Dr. Jekyll who tests a chemical potion on himself that turns him into Spider-Man's nemesis, a super-powered Mr. Hyde the press dubs ``the Green Goblin.'' The two stories intersect -- and the stage is set for an eventual super-showdown -- when Parker and Osborn's troubled son (James Franco) become best friends, roommates and rivals for the affections of their beautiful high-school classmate (Kirsten Dunst). As this unfolds, the surprise of the movie is the humanity of the script: How skillfully and effortlessly it works off the stories of Peter's smoldering, unexpressed love for his girl-next-door, and Osborn's desperate business and family conflicts. Equally surprising is the success of the offbeat casting of Maguire. His nerdy manner and goofy smile struck many as all wrong for the part, but he's endearing and sympathetic in a way that movie versions of comic super-heroes have never been before. The rest of the cast -- Dafoe as the villain, Dunst as everyone's vision of a childhood sweetheart, old-pros Cliff Robertson and Rosemary Harris as Peter's salt-of-the-earth uncle and aunt -- also are just right, and combine to give the movie an ensemble luster that's been missing for this genre since ``Superman II.'' The producers' other big gamble -- the choice of Sam Raimi for director -- also has paid off in spades. Known for idiosyncratic cult movies (``The Evil Dead,'' ``Darkman''), with no previous blockbuster hit on his resume, he's not at all the kind of filmmaker studios tend to choose for assignments this nerve-wrackingly expensive. But he's given the film an ingratiating tone that's faithful to the comic books and sporadically humorous but never tongue-in-cheek or campy; and a visual style that bows to the surrealism of pulp fantasy but embraces a more classic movie style that's closer to David Lean than the MTV-pyrotechnics of ``X-Men.'' Raimi manages to execute at least three virtuoso sequences that are as exhilarating and original as anything Hollywood has given us in years. And he integrates all the work of special-effects whiz John Dykstra (``Star Wars'') so seamlessly it never calls attention to itself or breaks the narrative flow. The movie is not perfect and has its annoying and weak points: It's a gallery of product placements, it's maybe 15 minutes too long, the scenes of Peter's merciless high-school bullying are rather clumsy, and -- let's face it -- the whole ``Spider-Man'' concept is a shameless ripoff of the ``Superman'' mythology. Purist fans also may take umbrage at the changes the filmmakers have made in the basic premise: Maguire's Peter Parker is not, for instance, quite the scientific genius of the comic book, and, instead of being brewed up in his home lab, his empowering spider webs just flow magically right out of his wrists. But this is just quibbling. All told, the big-screen ``Spider-Man'' is a fairly dazzling ambassador of the ever-more-special-effects-driven New Millennium Hollywood; and a movie that reminds us of just how exciting and satisfying the fantasy cinema can be when it's approached with imagination and flair. REVIEW SPIDER-MAN DIRECTOR: Sam Raimi CAST: Tobey Maguire, Kirsten Dunst, Willem Dafoe RUNNING TIME: 121 minutes RATING: PG-13 for stylized action and violence GRADE: A- 
