The United States, joined by the United Nations, the European Union and Russia, called Thursday for an international Middle East peace conference to be convened in early summer, hoping to build on a U.S.-Saudi push aimed at ending decades of Palestinian-Israeli bloodshed. The move commits President Bush and the United States to a leading role in trying to resolve the conflict, 16 months after he came to office hoping to avoid the sort of exhaustive diplomacy pursued, ultimately in vain, by his predecessor. Spurred by months of fighting and weeks of intensive diplomacy, Secretary of State Colin Powell said the moment had come to press an international plan to create a viable Palestinian state in exchange for an end to violence and threats directed against Israel. To set the stage for the talks, Powell said the group agreed to ``move quickly'' on a $1 billion aid package _ the United States has pledged $300 million _ to help rebuild Palestinian areas ravaged by a five-week Israeli military offensive. Bush, speaking separately at the White House, made clear his intention to press the peace process with or without the involvement of Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat. For the first time, Bush suggested that Arafat might not be an essential, or even a reliable, negotiating partner, saying he had passed up the chance to ``grab the peace'' in the past. Bush called Israel's presence in the West Bank an ``occupation.'' But he also pointedly stated that a Palestinian state ``cannot be based on a foundation of terror or corruption,'' charges long levied against Arafat's regime, which has been tied to militant attacks against Israel and which was unable to account for millions of dollars in international aid money during the 1990s. ``We've made good progress,'' working with other Arab leaders and the Israelis, said Bush, who is to meet separately at the White House next week with Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and Jordan's King Abdullah II. The agreement to convene a peace conference came during a meeting at the State Department of Powell, U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan and European and Russian officials. The group, which calls itself the ``quartet,'' has been engaged for weeks in efforts to find a diplomatic framework for bringing Arabs and Israelis to the negotiating table. ``We committed ourselves to the promotion of serious and accelerated negotiation toward a settlement,'' said Powell, adding that the United States and its partners would work to develop ``a set of principles'' to form the basis for the peace conference. ``Details with respect to where and when and who the conveners would be remain to be determined,'' said Powell. ``But this is a time for prompt action to take advantage of this new window of opportunity that has been presented to us. And we intend to do just that.'' While Powell did not specify the nature of the conference, the White House made clear hours earlier that a summit of world leaders was not being considered. Instead, a meeting of foreign ministers was being contemplated. ``The idea of the ministerial level is an interesting one. It requires a lot of groundwork for it to be done, and done right,'' said White House spokesman Ari Fleischer. ``At the summit level, that is premature.'' By gathering cabinet-level officials, the conference would exclude both Sharon and Arafat, arch foes bound up in decades of mutual hostility compounded by 19 months of violence that has brought death and destruction to both camps. Bush's remarks, made during a news conference following meetings with European leaders, appeared to advance the president further along a course of marginalizing Arafat and pursuing a peace process among Arab and Israeli leaders instead. White House aides would not confirm that tack, but Bush and other top officials have gone to lengths in recent days to stress the progress they say has been made through efforts with Arab leaders, during a month Arafat has spent under house arrest by Israelis. ``We are certainly encouraged by the outreach _ rhetorical, actual, diplomatic, political _ by the Arab states, to open up the process to peace and encourage parties to go down the pathway to peace,'' said National Security Council spokesman Sean McCormack. Former President Bill Clinton blamed Arafat for scuttling intensive peace efforts on his watch, culminating in a proposal Arafat rejected in 2000 that would have created a Palestinian state in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. ``He (Arafat) has just been disappointing,'' said Bush. ``He's had some chance to grab the peace and hasn't done so in the past, and therefore he's let down the Palestinian people.'' Bush added: ``Now's the chance to show he can lead.'' ``We, and the whole world, want the process to move forward,'' said McCormack. ``This isn't about personalities _ it's about peace.'' Bush has hailed as a breakthrough a peace initiative offered by Saudi Arabia. It calls, in essence, for the creation of a Palestinian state in the West Bank, Gaza Strip and eastern Jerusalem_ lands captured by Israel in the 1967 war _ in exchange for an end to Arab hostility against Israel. Bob Deans can be contacted at bobdeans(at)coxnews.com. ENDIT Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
