Genuity Inc., the Woburn, Mass. Internet services provider, said Thursday it would cut another 1,100 to 1,200 jobs _ about 30 percent of its work force _ after posting weak financial results. About 1,860 of Genuity's current 4,000 employees work in Massachusetts, but the company gave no indication how many of the layoffs will occur here or when. Genuity has already slashed 2,800 jobs in the past year as the once-booming market for handling Net traffic, hosting Web pages, and related services has come crashing back to earth. In contrast to the booming revenue growth Genuity posted in the late 1990s, in the quarter ended March 30 its sales actually dropped 11 percent from the previous quarter, and 6 percent from the same period a year earlier. Genuity posted a narrower first-quarter loss of $257.5 million, or $1.15 a share, down from $1.52 a year earlier, as sales fell from just under $300 million in the first quarter of 2001 to $281.6 million. However, Genuity also anounced a new sales deal with Verizon Communications, from which the company was spun off in 2000, which apparently helped Genuity's shares rise 6 cents to 78 cents in Nasdaq trading. In a conference call with analysts, Genuity chief financial officer Daniel O'Brien said the company is taking steps toward a reverse stock split that would, among other things, help get its shares back over the $1 threshhold that normally can trigger a Nasdaq delisting. Genuity was formerly GTE's Internetworking division, which dates back to the pioneering Cambridge Internet company Bolt, Beranek &AMP; Newman of the 1960s. When GTE and Bell Atlantic merged in 2000 to form Verizon, Verizon agreed to temporarily spin off a controlling stake in Genuity. Verizon can regain control of Genuity as soon as it gets approval to offer long-distance phone service throughout the old Bell Atlantic territory, which it hopes to do by 2004. In the new Genuity-Verizon pact, Verizon is agreeing to refer customers for Genuity's Black Rocket Voice product, which uses lower-cost Internet hauling for voice calls, and take over management of modems through which Genuity offers Internet access. Verizon has agreed to a five-year ``take or pay'' deal to buy $500 million worth of services from Genuity including Internet access, network security, and Web page hosting services. Verizon chief executive Ivan Seidenberg said that ``the momentum we are gaining by working together. . .combined with the broader steps (Genuity executives) have taken to operate their business more efficiently help position Genuity well for the future.'' Besides the job reductions, Genuity said it will reduce capital spending this year by up to $200 million, to a range of $400 million to $500 million. Genuity is also shutting down a professional services unit in western Europe and considering additional consolidation of data centers and administrative facilities. Dana Tardelli, an analyst with the Aberdeen Group in Boston, said Genuity appears to be facing basically the same set of challenges as other struggling Net companies, such as WorldCom and the bankrupt Global Crossing and Williams Communications Group, which have seen the brief explosion in Internet business in the late 1990s dry up. ``The whole data play that was going to generate this 30 percent annual growth rates just did not materialize,'' Tardelli said. ``It's hard to look across the landscape and see anyone who has figured it out.'' ``If you reset all your expectations _ moderate growth with low margins _ plenty of people have good business models with those characteristics,'' Tardelli said, adding that the prospect of being brought back into Verizon helps Genuity tell customers, ``Don't worry about our stability, because we're going to be owned by Verizon.'' Genuity said major reasons for its slowing revenues in the first quarter were the effects of a renegotiation of its big contract with America Online to provide dial-up access numbers and the phaseout of other wholesale Net access operations. Domestic dial-up access revenues from AOL dropped by 25 percent from the prior quarter because of lower rates. But Genuity reported several other business lines faltered, with ``dedicated connectivity'' revenues from big corporate networks falling 13 percent from the prior year. Long-haul Internet transport revenues fell 36 percent from a year earlier because of an industry-wide price squeeze related to the ``bandwidth glut'' plaguing some sectors of the telecom industry, An economy-wide slowdown in corporate information technology spending caused revenues for Web hosting and ``value added services'' to drop 33 percent from a year earlier, Genuity said. For the full year 2002, Genuity said it expects to post annual revenues of $1 billion to $1.1 billion and a pro-forma loss before special charges of 92 cents to 99 cents per share. It said from the perspective of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization, it will lose $300 million to $350 million this year. Genuity said it has $721.1 million in cash and cash equivalents on hand. Peter J. Howe can be reached at howe(at)globe.com. 
