BC-PRIVACY-POLITICS-NYT (moved Saturday, April 27) A New York Times News Service article about proposed privacy legislation misidentified the House Judiciary subcommittee on which Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of Manhattan and a backer of the measure, is the ranking minority member. It is the Subcommittee on the Constitution, not the Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law. BC-WTC-FEMA-NYT (moved Wednesday, May 1) A New York Times News Service article about the Federal Emergency Management Agency's reopening of more than 7,000 rejected applications for housing aid misstated the location for a meeting called by community groups with complaints about the agency. It will be 2 to 5 p.m. on Sunday at Public School 124, 40 Division Street, in Manhattan, not at 141 Worth Street. BC-NJ-LOTTERY-NYT (moved Tuesday, April 30) A New York Times News Service article about Jorge and Joanne Lopes, who were revealed as the winners of a $58.9 million share in a multistate lottery jackpot, referred incorrectly in some copies to the New Jersey town where they live. It is Manalapan, not Englishtown. BC-IBM-BOOK-NYT (moved Tuesday, April 30) A New York Times News Service article about a deal reached by Louis V. Gerstner Jr., the chairman and former chief executive of IBM, to write a book for HarperCollins about his tenure at the company misspelled the surname of an associate publisher who commented on the deal. She is Carie Freimuth, not Freimath. BC-TECH-BRIEFS-NYT (moved Tuesday, April 30) A report in a New York Times News Service article about Web sites that suspended music broadcasts to protest legislation that imposes royalties for online play misstated the payment amount ordered by Congress. It is 0.14 cent a song per listener, not 14 cents. BC-BOX-TYSON-NYT (moved Tuesday, April 30) A New York Times News Service article about Mike Tyson's preparations in Maui for his next fight misspelled the name of a volcano near his training site. It is Haleakala, not Heleakala. BC-TV-RADNER-REVIEW-NYT (moved Sunday, April 28) A New York Times News Service review about ``Gilda Radner: It's Always Something'' misstated the name of a character played by Bill Murray in the early years of ``Saturday Night Live.'' It was Todd DiLaMura, not Todd Loopner. 
