This is the weekend of the national booksellers convention, the sales-pitch happening of the year, and so it's understandable that when you talk of producing a commercially successful book you have to consider that seemingly anomalous inhabitant of the literary world, the publicist. It's true. Once a book is written, often the most important individual in an author's life after the editor is the public relations person. Ridiculous? An apparition? This is hardly ghostly stuff: lobby for properly timed book reviews; assure advance-galley and then finished-book mailings; determine if the book has news value and drive editors, reporters and television producers to madness in trying to persuade them to use the material, properly credited; evaluate _ often before the publisher acquires the book _ the author's potential promotability; train and script the author to perform for media; work with sales reps to set up ``launch events'' like interviews, signings and tours. There's more. At times, the public relations person becomes the author's primary advocate (along with the editor) within the house, not an unimportant role, since every author needs an in-house champion to make sure colleagues pay proper adoration to the writer's work. This is particularly vital when the writer's editor ``ankles,'' as they say in Hollywood, to another publisher, leaving the author without a cheerleader. Stuart S. Applebaum, chief spokesman for Random House Inc., who sees publishing as part of the grand, mysterious cycle of life itself, describes his job this way: ``In giving life to a book, if the editor is the midwife, then we the publicists are the neonatal nurses. All-purpose caregivers to both the newborn and the author-parent in those first six weeks.'' Thursday night is the eve of BookExpo America, the annual national convention of booksellers and publishing executives, held this year in New York City for the first time in more than a decade. In publishing, the spring is gone and summer is nearly over, so the convention is focused on fall and early winter book sales. For publicists, salespeople and marketeers it's a double-overtime carnival and carousel, and they are the barkers, not only pitching titles but also coddling their authors on display to the booksellers. Jane Beirn, director of public relations for HarperCollins, described it this way: ``We have so many authors coming to BEA and so many schedules for each and so much logistics that we take care of every author as if each one has an air-traffic controller.'' HarperCollins will have 15 publicists to ``control'' 60 of its authors brought to the convention. Like all species, this one has evolved. In the beginning, book public relations was considered frivolous by the men who ran the publishing houses, so it was relegated mostly to those women who weren't editorial assistants, in much the same way that many news organizations then consigned women to ``soft news'' like psychology, food and fashion. When book public relations meant more than stuffing bound galleys in Jiffy bags and pouring at sherry parties, the profession became infused with men, but women more than kept pace and many of the most powerful public relations executives are now women. Each house has its corps of public relations personnel, and it's not uncommon for them to hire outside public relations help. Nor is it unusual for authors to engage their own public relations counsel, or if they are successful enough, force publishers to do it. Lynn Goldberg, of Goldberg McDuffie Communications, a leading independent publicist, will send six publicists to the convention and, moreover, is producing for it a catalog of her clients' books, in much the way the publishers do. She said she talks to the press and booksellers all year, but ``the convention is a great reference point for renewal of friendships and networking and it's a chance to bring my authors face to face with television producers and newspaper reporters,'' the better to place them on talk shows and in feature articles. Paul Bogaards, head of public relations for Knopf, also sees his profession as author's best friend. He said: ``We have a captive audience of booksellers and reporters and television producers all there under the same roof for three days. Everybody's walking around looking for an undiscovered gem, and sometimes one of your books develops a heartbeat. If you do your job well you have relationships with retailers as well as reporters.'' Increasingly, there are new dimensions to the press agent's job as marketing becomes the driving force in sales. Victoria Meyer, of Simon &AMP; Schuster, said: ``Besides getting the word out, we are frequently included in the process to assess how much the house wants a writer and his book. We try to give a sense of what we think we can do with a book _ selling ourselves and the house to the writer and agent before the book is acquired.'' Agents today often ask not only for advance money but also for marketing and publicity plans before signing on. Important business in today's publishing atmosphere. Public relations' indispensability is acknowledged even by the most snobbish literary book editor, for making books is a collaborative effort once the lonely writer is finished. But outside the publishing world? Look out. Journalists express their disdain by referring to them as ``flacks,'' and it is true that, along with agents, they are the group in publishing who are most rejected, who hear ``no'' most often, as in ``No, your writer is not worth an interview.'' Applebaum, however, said that he and his colleagues ``are always bemused by the fact that journalists who turn into authors are the most incessantly demanding of a publicist's services.'' And let us not forget that information has the power to ennoble. Believe me, when you are on deadline and need a particular fact, that flack quickly becomes a respected information provider. An important enabler. 
