His jump shot, his drive, even his crossover dribble had failed Allen Iverson for three quarters, making him a virtual no-show in the Philadelphia 76ers' most crucial game of the season. The trade rumors and criticism that dogged him before his Game 3 masterpiece were just a loss away from being resurrected. But when the defending Eastern Conference champion 76ers seemed poised to close eight months of work in failure, Iverson returned to the form that made him the darling of last year's playoffs. Scoring 12 of his game-high 28 points in the fourth quarter, including Philadelphia's last eight, Iverson led the 76ers to an 83-81 victory over the Boston Celtics Wednesday night at the First Union Center. The victory evened this best-of-five-game first-round playoff series at 2-2 and set up Game 5 on Friday night in Boston. The 76ers are trying to become the seventh NBA team to win a best-of-five-game series after falling behind by 2-0. ``We understand it's going to be a war and it's going to be 20,000 of them against 20 of us,'' Iverson said. ``We feel like we're in control because we feel like we're the best team.'' Iverson, who made only 5 of 19 shots through three quarters before making four of his last seven attempts, hit the game's most important shot with 22.6 seconds left. After Boston's Rodney Rogers tied the score at 79-79, Iverson sank a 14-foot fadeaway over the solid defense of Kenny Anderson. Choosing not to call a timeout, Boston looked lost and settled for a heavily contested 22-foot shot by Antoine Walker. The ball caromed off the rim and out of bounds, giving Philadelphia possession with 2.3 seconds left. Fouled quickly, Iverson hit two free throws to seal the victory. ``After being in this league for six years, I've learned to play through struggle,'' Iverson said. ``I've learned that when it's not going well, it's important for me to keep fighting. I know how to miss 10 straight shots and still be aggressive and look for my shot.'' Iverson, who scored 42 points in the 76ers' victory in Game 3 on Sunday, got going early in the fourth quarter to lead a 10-2 run that enabled Philadelphia to erase a 65-58 deficit. A 17-footer by Aaron McKie put the 76ers ahead by 68-67 with 6 minutes 38 seconds to play. Boston rallied, tying the score at 74-74 when Paul Pierce made a 3-pointer and going ahead by 77-75 with 1:39 left on a lay-in and a free throw by Pierce. But Pierce, who played poorly until his final flurry, could not continue his surge and, after a basket by Iverson, lost his dribble to McKie with 57 seconds to go. The turnover led to a reverse layup by Iverson, and Philadelphia never trailed again. Walker led the Celtics with 25 points but missed all four of his shots while going scoreless in the fourth quarter. Pierce followed with 20 points after scoring only nine points through three quarters. ``It wasn't me getting tired,'' Walker said of his fourth-quarter struggles. ``I just didn't get the same shots I got in the first three quarters.'' Dikembe Mutombo had 10 points and 14 rebounds for Philadelphia, while Derrick Coleman scored 14 points, 12 in the first half. Boston led for most of the first half, in which both teams shot badly. Only Walker did anything of note offensively for Boston, hitting two 3-pointers and using his dribbling skills and deception to get near the lane for floating shots. He had 14 points at halftime, only two less than the rest of the Celtics' starters combined. Pierce, who was averaging a team-best 28.3 points a game in the series, attempted only two shots while scoring four points in the first half. The Celtics shot only 37.8 percent shooting, yet they trailed by only 38-36 at intermission. Still, for much of the half it looked as if Boston could overcome Pierce's struggles. After Walker made a 3-pointer and a 20-foot shot, the Celtics went ahead by 31-25 midway through the second quarter. But, looking alive for the first time, Philadelphia put together a 13-4 run over the next four minutes to move ahead by 38-35. After missing eight straight shots in going 2 for 10, Iverson contributed a midrange jumper and a short fadeaway to the run, and four other 76ers scored as well. Until that point, Philadelphia's offense had been all Coleman. Getting several dunks off deft passes from the perimeter, Coleman scored 12 points and grabbed five rebounds in the half. Coleman got his points in the flow of the game, as the 76ers did not feature him. The third quarter was a lot like the previous two periods as Boston took control early behind Walker before Philadelphia rallied. After Walker buried two 3-pointers to give the Celtics a seven-point lead, the visitors seemed poised to close out the 76ers. But Iverson awoke again, scoring on a drive and snatching away Anderson's dribble on the other end. The steal led to a jumper by Eric Snow that put Philadelphia ahead once again, 50-49. The advantage was short-lived. Walker sank another 3-pointer and added two free throws to send Boston into the final quarter with a 61-56 lead. 
