This time it is different. The non-Catholic world has a stake in the Catholic Church and its scandals. The current crisis of sexual misconduct by a few priests and the atrocious leadership of some bishops and cardinals will, unlike in the past, force significant change in the church. Non-Catholic influence and secular public opinion will be joined to the anger of committed Catholics to ensure it. What happens in the drawing rooms of the Vatican and the back halls of parish churches matters today to Protestants and non-believers as well as Catholics. President John F. Kennedy, symbolically at least, may be responsible for that. The Catholic Church is part of and responsible to mainstream America today in a way it had never been before Kennedy's presidency. He was among the first and certainly the most prominent of Catholics to break out of the safe ghetto that Catholicism had intentionally become in this country. That brought untold benefits to countless Catholics, but it also made the Catholic Church more accountable to non-Catholic interests. The church was once widely known for never washing its dirty linen in public. It didn't have to. Bishops answered only to cardinals, who answered only to the pope, who answered only to God. For centuries, they were the unquestioned moral, ethical, social and political voices in Europe. In America, Roman Catholicism was intentionally organized to be a parallel universe that ran alongside the mainstream Protestant country, according to Charles Morse, author of ``Catholic America'' (Random House 1997). Catholics were fiercely loyal to America, fought bravely in its wars and paid taxes but lived in a wholly separate reality. The church was religion, culture and society in one package that fully embraced the believer. Catholics had their own hospitals, schools, churches, social clubs, business organizations, funeral homes and graveyards. They were encouraged not to attend public schools, forbidden to enter a Protestant church and barred from many neighborhoods and clubs. Scandals passed essentially without notice in that closed society. Victims were sworn to silence to protect the church. Kennedy changed that dramatically by his election in 1960. He spanned the chasm between Catholic and Protestant worlds in America and forever changed the place of American Catholicism in the scheme of things. Many feared he would move the pope into the White House. On the contrary, Main Street, USA became part of the pothole-filled political map of the Vatican. Tepid words from the pope and his minions that would once have mollified the faithful will do little to resolve the current crisis. It is different this time. Steve Gushee writes for the Palm Beach Post. E-mail: stevegushee(at)pbpost.com Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
