He was the ``true patriot, a trusted friend'' chosen by President Bush nine days after Sept. 11 to create a grand strategy for deterring future terrorist attacks. But instead of becoming the pre-eminent leader of domestic security, Tom Ridge has become a White House adviser with a shrinking mandate, forbidden by the president to testify before Congress to explain his strategy, overruled in White House councils and overshadowed by powerful cabinet members reluctant to cede their turf or their share of the limelight. When the Pentagon moved to suspend air patrols over New York, Ridge was not consulted. ``We don't tell the Office of Homeland Security about recommendations, only about decisions,'' said Peter F. Verga, special assistant to the secretary of defense for homeland security. When the administration received warnings last month of a possible terrorist threat against banks, it was Attorney General John Ashcroft who made the announcement. Since the moment Ridge, former governor of Pennsylvania, arrived in the capital, he has been the focus of an increasingly bitter battle between the White House and Congress over the shape and scope of the new Office of Homeland Security. That battle was on display Thursday in three separate dramas on Capitol Hill. Republicans and Democrats from the House and the Senate introduced legislation to create a cabinet-level Department of Homeland Security, saying seven months of experience had persuaded them that as a presidential adviser Ridge lacked the authority he needed to be effective. Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., opened a hearing to which he had summoned four cabinet officials with a complaint that Ridge, ``the single figure with the responsibility to protect the lives and property of the American people from attack,'' refused to testify, forcing Byrd to obtain his information piecemeal. The administration takes the position that as an adviser Ridge has no obligation to testify before Congress. In his own appearance in the richly paneled Mansfield Room of the Capitol, Ridge tried to defuse the criticism by speaking in public to senators for the first time, answering questions about border security. He quickly found himself accused of holding an elaborate news conference. It is not just Congress that has caused problems for Ridge. At times he has been undercut by others in the executive branch. When Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham asked for $379.7 million to improve the security of nuclear weapons and waste, the director of the Office of Management and Budget, Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., cut the request 93 percent. It was Ridge, however, who made himself the butt of late-night television jokes in March, when he announced a system of color-coded rankings for terrorist threats. ``This is a tough town, and once you don't succeed it's even harder to regain your footing,'' said Rep. Jane Harman, D-Calif., who is a sponsor of the bill to expand the power of the office. ``We have to give Tom Ridge a real job. Never has a person been given so much responsibility with so little authority.'' For his part, Ridge said he would accept more authority but was not convinced that the added power would solve all the problems. His job for now, he said in an hourlong conversation in his compact quarters down the hall from the Oval Office, is to be an ``enabler'' for federal, state and local officials and to convince Congress that this is the best approach. ``We're not Pac-Man trying to gobble up power, money and responsibility,'' he said. That attitude is one reason members of Congress, as well as governors, mayors, firefighters and academics, have refused to turn the debate into a personal attack on Ridge. On the contrary, critics, as well as supporters, praise Ridge for having the right ideas, an open mind and a confident manner. ``Everybody thinks the world of Tom Ridge,'' Gov. Gary Locke of Washington, a Democrat, said. ``When problems have arisen, he jumps on them.'' But Locke complained about inadequate strategies for strengthening border security and added: ``The administration has failed to think outside the box. In terms of everything else, it has been frustrating.'' Ridge said such backhanded compliments were off the mark, as were the growing complaints from Congress. ``We've achieved quite a bit in the first six months,'' Ridge said, citing the $38 billion budget tht he put together in six weeks as chief among the accomplishments. ``It is unprecedented in terms of federal involvement at the local level. In that sense, the budget document is the best synopsis of homeland security.'' In addition to the budget, Ridge assembled a 105-member staff and is stitching together a network of firefighters, police officers, state officials and health officers in what would be the first truly national homeland defense system. The further from Washington, the higher the opinion of Ridge. State and local officials say he has insured that their voices are heard here and that the federal bureaucracy responds to their concerns. Perhaps that is what he had in mind when he was asked whether he had a role model. ``Maybe Copernicus,'' he said, referring to the 16th-century astronomer-physician who argued _ against contemporaneous wisdom _ that the sun, not the Earth, was the center of the universe. Ridge said he had a similar problem trying to convince Washington that small towns and communities _ not the federal government _ were at the center of homeland security. ``If the hometown is secure, then the homeland is secure,'' he said, repeating a favorite aphorism. A report this week by the Brookings Institution, a liberal Washington research group, praised Ridge for specific steps he has taken. But in what the authors called ``a friendly but firm critique,'' the report said he had concentrated too much on air safety without recognizing other vulnerabilities; that he had not provided enough help to the Coast Guard, Customs Service or Border Patrol; and that proposals for securing private buildings and other installations were too scattershot. (BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) Ridge reviewed what he said would be the foundation of a strategic plan that his office will complete by July 1. He will build up the public health system, finance programs to fight bioterrorism, improve border security and give new technology and training to the police, fire and other officials at the front lines of trying to protect the public. The plan has to streamline communications among thousands of agencies, departments and offices across the country to coordinate resources and share intelligence. It has to impose safety standards and detail how to protect vital private installations like banks and skyscrapers. As the cabinet member who has worked most closely with him, Daniels, the budget director, has observed him firsthand. ``He is a seasoned executive,'' Daniels said. ``It came naturally to him, even under the time pressure, to try to craft a strategy to define major goals and then move to dollars and the budget. In this town, it's normally the other way around.'' Being underestimated has been the hallmark of Ridge's career, said Stuart Stevens, a Republican consultant who worked for Ridge in his successful 1992 campaign for governor. ``He was a super long shot then and he won easily,'' Stevens said. ``He may not play well with the Washington intelligentsia. But when he walks into a Lions Club in Sioux Falls or a union hall in Oakland, they stand up and applaud.'' Republican strategists no longer mention Ridge as a possible replacement for Vice President Dick Cheney in 2004 should he choose not to run again. They say Ridge is developing a national profile and the skeleton of a national organization through his local and state contacts that would help him in a race for president or vice president. (END OPTIONAL TRIM) ``Initially, it was tough sledding for him, and I think there is a potential this could hurt him,'' another Republican strategist, Bill Dal Col, said. ``But now he is getting experience putting a national organization together, ingratiating himself with the locals. And his political skills are impeccable.'' In the showdown with Congress, Mr. Ridge has little room to exercise those skills. At Thursday's public briefing he had to defend a weakened version of his own recommendation for a radical shift for stronger border control. The President overruled him in March in favor of a smaller new border control agency within the Justice Department. 
