The man expected to become China's next leader had friendly meetings with President Bush and other top officials Wednesday as he neared the end of his first visit to the United States. Both sides believe that the visit by China's heir apparent, Vice President Hu Jintao, can help set the tone for future Chinese-American relations, and most of the discussions did not move beyond pleasantries, officials said. But Hu has been showered with top-level, if discreet, attention of the kind normally reserved for heads of state, and officials from both sides expressed satisfaction with the visit. Both sides sought to play down a festering disagreement over U.S. military aid to Taiwan. Earlier this week in New York, Hu was warmly embraced by many titans of American business and finance. They flocked to private meetings with the presumed future leader of a nation where they hope to increase investment and trade. Hu has been a consummate insider in China's Communist Party, avoiding flamboyant actions or much contact with Western officials and scholars in the past. This trip is widely seen as an important step in preparation for his ascension later this year to the leadership of the Communist Party. In a 30-minute meeting with President Bush, and longer sessions with Vice President Dick Cheney and several Cabinet members, Hu discussed the war on terror and China's economic opening _ issues that are bringing the two countries together _ as well as Taiwan, weapons proliferation and freedom of religion, which are sources of disagreement. In a meeting with Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld, Hu discussed the possibility of resuming meetings and other cooperation between the two countries' militaries, activities that have been suspended since the dispute last year over a downed American surveillance plane. Hu, in keeping with the careful strategy that has bought him to the brink of power, had asked to keep press appearances during his trip to a minimum. After his meeting with Bush on Wednesday, Hu left the White House with a smile and wave, only saying, ``The talks went well.'' American officials were under orders not to discuss details of the visit. The White House spokesman, Ari Fleischer, said, ``The president expressed his belief that the United States and China can work together on a wide range of issues.'' Chinese leaders are worried by several recent statements and actions by the Bush administration that, in their eyes, amount to a more overt American alliance with Taiwan, which China considers an errant province that must be reunited with the motherland, by force if necessary. Hu raised China's concerns about Taiwan in his meetings here, something he had to do to maintain his standing at home, but did not press the issue and American leaders reassured him about American fealty to the ``one China'' policy. The Chinese seem prepared to sidestep the Taiwan dispute for now in the interest of better overall ties, said Bates Gill, a China expert at the Brookings Institution. ``China's leaders need good relations with the United States to achieve their larger goals,'' Gill said. Those goals include gaining respectability as a major world power, modernization and economic development at home, and stable relations with Asia and the West to ensure access to capital, technology and markets. ``I think a decision has been made to put up with a great deal from Washington in order to achieve those goals,'' Gill said. 
