The New Jersey computer programmer who unleashed the Melissa virus in March 1999, disrupting more than a million e-mail accounts worldwide and costing businesses an estimated $80 million, was sentenced Wednesday to a year and eight months in federal prison. The programmer, David Lee Smith, faced nearly five years in prison based on federal sentencing guidelines after he pleaded guilty in December 1999 to federal charges. But in sentencing Smith in U.S. District Court here Wednesday morning, Judge Joseph A. Greenaway Jr. granted a joint motion by prosecutors and the defense to ignore the guidelines, based on Smith's cooperation with the authorities on investigations into other computer viruses. ``The nature of his assistance has been extraordinary in its length and breadth, both here and abroad,'' Greenaway said. The judge also sentenced Smith, 34, of Aberdeen, N.J., to three years of supervised release, the federal equivalent of parole, during which he will be prohibited from logging onto a computer network without specific permission from the court. He was also ordered to pay a $5,000 fine and perform 100 hours of community service. The judge granted the government's request to seal the case file to protect any continuing investigations. Smith, dressed in a dark blue suit and with his dark hair cut short, told the judge that he had made ``a colossal mistake'' that he would not repeat. ``I have never been in trouble before,'' Smith said. ``And I will never be in trouble again.'' He would not speak to reporters after the hearing. The U.S. attorney for New Jersey, Christopher J. Christie, speaking to reporters, declined to say specifically whether Smith had aided with terrorist investigations. But Christie did say that Smith had been assisting his office up through the present, and could even be called on in the future. And, he added, ``we are always looking for a connection to terrorism.'' Smith's lawyer, Edward F. Borden Jr., told the judge that, unlike the I Love You virus and others that were intended to erase files or do other damage, Melissa merely caused a disruption when it essentially spread itself exponentially by focusing on the e-mail addresses already on file in each computer it infected. Borden even suggested that his client deserved some credit for prompting businesses to install protection systems against more destructive viruses, though Greenaway disagreed. The judge also said he was not concerned with Borden's contention that his client would forever be branded ``the Melissa virus guy'' or that Smith would have trouble getting computer-related work. After the hearing, Borden said he thought his client should not have received jail time. 
