A coalition of labor, environmental and consumer groups filed suit on Wednesday to block new Bush administration rules that could admit thousands of Mexican trucks to the United States starting this summer. The suit was filed in U.S. District Court in San Francisco just two days before the administration's regulations on Mexican trucking were to become final, setting the stage for President Bush to lift a longtime ban of Mexican trucks on American highways. In the lawsuit, Public Citizen, the Teamsters union and the Environmental Law Foundation asked the court to delay the new regulations contending that the administration had not conducted a wide-ranging study of how Mexican trucks would affect the environment. The lawsuit asserts that Mexican trucks will generally emit more pollutants than American trucks. As a result, it says, some heavily polluted areas in Texas and Southern California will face worsening air quality. ``Commercial trucks from Mexico will not meet this country's tougher emissions standards,'' said James P. Hoffa, president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. ``We should make sure that these trucks are safe and in full compliance with the same clean air rules that we hold American trucks to.'' David Longo, spokesman for the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, said the agency was not ready to comment because its lawyers were still reviewing the suit. The government conducted a preliminary environmental assessment that concluded a longer, more comprehensive study was not needed because Mexican trucks would not substantially hurt the environment. Longo said the administration had not begun to process applications from Mexican trucking companies that hope to operate throughout the United States. Still, many administration officials say they expect to open the border this summer. Mexican trucks are now limited to zones within 20 miles of the border, areas where they can transfer their cargo to American trucks. The lawsuit asserts that by 2007, Mexican trucks will add more than 600 tons a year of particulate matter to the San Diego and Houston regions. The lawsuit also cites a study showing that by the year 2010, each Mexican truck on average will emit twice as much particulate matter and nitrogen oxides as American trucks will. The lawsuit asserts that diesel emissions cause coughing, nausea, inflammation of the lungs, and irritation of the throat and eyes. ``We believe these trucks, particularly the older trucks, which represent a substantial part of the Mexican fleet, represent a serious threat to the environment,'' said Al Meyerhoff, the lead lawyer for the coalition. ``The older trucks are very serious polluters. We think the Bush administration should be reducing, not increasing, public exposure to the cancer-causing chemicals released by the trucks.'' The Teamsters union has long fought the admission of Mexican trucks, fearing that thousands of lower-paid drivers from Mexico will take jobs from American truck drivers. The union joined the lawsuit even though it persuaded the Bush administration in November to accept tougher regulations to ensure that any Mexican trucks entering the United States were safe. Before Mexican trucks are admitted, the Transportation Department, which has strengthened its inspection facilities along the border, must certify that these trucks are generally safe. The lawsuit has brought together groups that have traditionally been at odds, like the California Trucking Association and the California AFL-CIO. In addition, the Teamsters and the environmental groups have battled over oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. Miguel Monterrubio, a spokesman for the Mexican Embassy, declined to comment, saying his government was reviewing the suit. Mexican officials have previously criticized the Teamsters and environmental groups for fighting opening the border to Mexican trucks. Mexican officials say the North American Free Trade Agreement requires opening the border, a position that has been upheld by an international panel. 
