A full field of 20 horses is expected for the 128th Kentucky Derby on Saturday, and at approximately 6:07 p.m. one of them will amble into the most famous winners' circle in America and be draped with a blanket of roses. By running the fastest of all at the mile and a quarter distance, the 3-year-old will have earned a place in the sport's history books. But if recent history is a guide, the Derby winner will not last long in the nation's sports consciousness, and enthusiasm over the annual quest for a Triple Crown champion will give way to a familiar summertime lament: Where have all the great horses gone? The answer is to the commercial breeding shed, where the prospect of millions of dollars has persuaded owners to take their potential superstar horses from the racetrack. This development has benefited the horse farms, especially in Kentucky, but it is troubling for some in an industry trying to find a lasting foothold in a sports market crowded with everything from the NBA to NASCAR all possessing a healthy concentration of stars. Two years ago, Fusaichi Pegasus caught the nation's fancy with an emphatic Kentucky Derby win, but raced just three more times before being retired to the life of a stallion. His owner, Fusao Sekiguchi, sold him for more than $60 million in the weeks following the Derby. Could he have done better financially by continuing to run him? Not likely. The career leader in earnings is a horse named Cigar, who won $10 million in purses running through age 6 in the 1990s. Today, Fusaichi Pegasus stands at Ashford Stud in Kentucky, where he is bred to more than 100 mares a season, commanding $135,000 per mare. ``There is much more economic incentive to stop on a horse early and breed rather than risk injury,'' said Dan Rosenberg, president of Three Chimneys Farm in Midway, Ky. ``Just do the arithmetic.'' Others in the industry worry that commercial breeders focus too much on pedigrees that produce precocious, fast but not necessarily sound runners. These yearlings look like, and sometimes command, a million bucks in the sales ring, but often have fleeting racing careers. Horses of all ability just are not running as often. In 1970, each thoroughbred averaged 10.22 starts a year, according to the Jockey Club. In 2001, that number dwindled to 6.97 starts. ``I'm afraid unsoundness may be taking over the industry,'' said Cecil Seaman, a bloodstock consultant who for 30 years has studied the biomechanics of horses and has created a database of more than 60,000 horses. ``Owners and breeders are looking at the millions that ring up on the auction tote board instead of the winners' circle at the racetrack. Our industry needs stars and we don't have them because they are broken down in their 2 and 3-year-old seasons.'' Last year's Derby winner, Monarchos, clocked the second fastest winning time in the race's history, but subsequently finished sixth in the Preakness and third in the Belmont. He was retired after one start as 4-year-old with torn ligaments in his left ankle. Point Given showed signs of being a superhorse by capturing four Grade 1 stakes in succession last summer _ the Preakness, Belmont, Haskell and Travers Stakes. But he was gone before Labor Day, sent into retirement as a result of strained tendon in his foreleg, an injury that in years past might have been repaired so that the colt could return to the racetrack. Wayne McIlwraith, a surgeon and past president of American Association of Equine Practitioners, said there was no definitive study on how breeding may or may not have weakened thoroughbreds, but acknowledges that he and his colleagues have recognized increasing fragility in racehorses. ``We are aware that certain stallions have defects in their progeny,'' McIlwraith said. ``They may have great 2-year-olds, but often don't have many 3 or 4-year-olds racing. What will be interesting is when we do have conclusive evidence is what will these big boys at the sales do? Will they go for the precocious runner at the expense of a sound horse?'' Only 11 horses have swept the Triple Crown, a series of three races for 3-year-olds contested in the span of five weeks that begins on the first Saturday in May in Louisville, moves on to Baltimore and the Preakness and concludes in New York with the Belmont Stakes. Sir Barton in 1919 was the first, Affirmed in 1978 the last, and in between horses like Secretariat and Seattle Slew graced magazine covers, attracted fan clubs and gave the Sport of Kings some star power. While horse racing is coming off a Triple Crown season last year that saw increased television ratings and media exposure, the National Thoroughbred Racing Association concedes it has had trouble maintaining the attention of the 19 million ``casual fans'' its research has identified past the spring classics. Beyond remarkable speed, intelligence and heart, the Triple Crown horses of yore shared a vital quality: durability. The 1941 Triple Crown champion, Whirlaway, made 60 starts in his career, for example, and 1946 champion Assault raced as a 7-year-old. In fact, these 11 horses made a combined 104 starts at the age of 4 or older and won 57 of them. ``When those Triple Crown horses were running, horse racing was a game, now it's a business,'' said Rosenberg of Three Chimneys Farm. (BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) The most recent Kentucky Derby winners have hinted at possessing their forerunners' brilliance but have not come close to their longevity. Of the Derby's past 11 winners, four never raced beyond their 3-year-old year and the remaining seven combined for 50 starts as older horses, winning just 15 of them. Still, they are coveted and highly valued at stud. Silver Charm, the 1997 Derby and Preakness winner who came within a neck of sweeping the Triple Crown at Belmont Park, commands $25,000 per coupling, and other recent Derby winners receive stud fees ranging from $5,000 (Grindstone, 1996) to $80,000 (Thunder Gulch, 1995). Rosenberg likes to cite the example of War Chant to illustrate how big a business breeding actually is. The colt finished ninth in the 2000 Derby but capped a seven-race, five-victory career the following fall by winning the Grade I, $1 million Breeders Cup Mile at Churchill Downs. War Chant is a son of Danzig _ one the world's top sires _ he commands $75,000 per coupling and averages 85 to 100 mares a season. So at 100 mares War Chant returns $7.5 million a year, a figure that possibly will increase exponentially with age. ``Even if he won all his races as a 4- or 5-year-old he couldn't equal that money,'' Rosenberg said. (END OPTIONAL TRIM) Breeding is more art than science and the maxim, ``breed-the-best-to-the-best-and-hope-for-the best,'' remains operative in the sheds across central Kentucky. Rosenberg acknowledges that the current market demand is for pedigrees that produce fast runners who perform early in their careers. There is no better example of that than Storm Cat, the most highly priced sire in the world at $500,000 per mare. Storm Cat ran only eight times, and never in a Triple Crown race, and won four of them, but he is valued because he sires for speed. Rosenberg acknowledges there are dangers in this path. ``Speed and precociousness may be incongruous with soundness,'' he said. It is also why an accomplished and durable racehorse like Silver Charm goes at what appears to be a bargain stud fee of $25,000. His racing career dwarfs the pricier War Chant and Fusaichi Pegasus. The gray is the fourth richest racehorse in history with more than $6.9 million in earnings, finished in the money 21 of 24 starts, traveled to the desert and won the Dubai World Cup and demonstrated his soundness by racing and winning a stakes race as a 5-year-old. Still, until his first foals hit the racetrack, Silver Charm is penalized for a modest pedigree and the fact that he was a Florida-bred. ``In the sales rings, they sell the sizzle not the steak,'' said Mike Pegram, owner of Real Quiet, the 1998 Derby and Preakness winner. Like Silver Charm, Real Quiet came a nose away from sweeping the Triple Crown, completed a hardy 20-race career and has attracted little attention as a stallion, commanding just $15,000 per mating. He cost Pegram just $17,000 as a yearling, earned more than $3.2 million on the racetrack but also possesses unfashionable breeding. Despite the fact that Fusaichi Pegasus, who cost $4 million as a yearling, is the only Derby winner in history to cost more than $1 million, owners spent a record average price of $710,247 on potential big horses at last year's Keeneland's July Selected Yearling sale, among the premier auctions for blue chip horses. In 2001, owners spent $473,044,553 on yearlings in North American sales rings, according to the Jockey Club. Everything from year round racing to souped-up racetracks and rich race purses for still developing horses have also contributed to the declining number of starts for racehorses. But John Nerud, the Hall of Fame trainer who campaigned the great Dr. Fager through 22 lifetime starts, 18 of them victories, says the economics of commercial breeding certainly has changed the face of horse racing. ``There are a lot of horses who shouldn't be overraced at 2 years old, but when a guy pays a million dollars for a horse and there are races out there where he can start getting a return on his investment, owners want to run in them,'' said Nerud. ``Yes, we're breeding pretty good horses, but the business is making it harder to keep them on the racetrack.'' 
