___ ``The Lessons of Terror: Why It Has Failed and Why It Will Fail Again.'' By Caleb Carr. New York: Random House, 2002. 272 pages. $19.95 (hardback). ___ President Bush touched a raw nerve last September when he called for a ``crusade'' against terrorism and quickly moved to reassure Muslims that he did not mean any offense by using the word that the Islamic world equates with the Christian Crusades some 1,000 years ago. Careless though it was, the president's word choice raises a historical lesson that is worth remembering as the United States wages a war on terrorism. That point, as the best-selling novelist Caleb Carr notes in his new book, ``The Lessons of Terror,'' is that the use of indiscriminate violence against civilians did not begin with Osama bin Laden or the Hamas suicide bombers in Israel: it has existed since the Crusades and well before that with Roman conquerors. Carr says terrorism is the modern name assigned to an old type of warfare, that which is ``deliberately waged against civilians with the purpose of destroying their will to support either leaders or policies that the agents of such violence find objectionable.'' Terror, in other words, is as old as war itself. Bin Laden and other terrorists are soldiers who are organized, well financed and globalized. ``Such an enemy must be considered an army, whatever its failure to conform to the popular western conception of such,'' Carr writes. ``The Lessons of Terror'' is above all a history book about the role terror played in the Roman conquests, the Crusades, the European wars as well as the nationalist movements in Ireland and by Jews trying to carve a state out of British-controlled Palestine. But the lesson he draws from this history is that terror cannot defeat terror. He advocates ``progressive'' or ``limited'' warfare, waging aggressive war against terrorist armies and their sponsors in a way that does the least harm to noncombatants. Carr makes the case that some of the most effective and successful military strategists have been those who purposefully sought to avoid harming civilians and civilian infrastructure. His models include Frederick the Great and Helmuth von Moltke, both Prussians known for their brilliant military strategies. These soldiers won wars with disciplined troops and maneuver but also, Carr contends, by limiting the brutality of war to combatants. Carr is perhaps best known for his recent novels ``Killing Time'' and ``The Alienist.'' Yet he also has written extensively for military and political journals. ``The Lessons of Terror,'' therefore, wraps a novelist's flair for storytelling with a historian's talent for critical assessment into an informative and thought-provoking study. The book is more than history, though. The author proposes a restructuring of American defense, some of which reflects Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld's efforts to reshape the post-Cold War military. Still, the military and political establishments will find some of his prescriptions hard to swallow. Carr stresses the importance of precision-guided weapons that are targeted from the ground. He repudiates the strategic bombings used against Vietnam, Iraq and in the Balkans as ``long-range destruction.'' Those campaigns reinforce the perception that America is careless in the use of power, he contends. Such bombings ``bred resentment and even hatred'' among civilian populations, something Frederick the Great and other advocates of limited war were intent to avoid. Carr's war doctrine says the way to fight the armies of terror is through rapid deployment of force and a swift strike when a target appears. There is little time for building overwhelming force, creating a public consensus or assembling international coalitions _ the very policies that have molded U.S. operations since the Persian Gulf War. The author also is critical of the CIA's history of interventions, which he says contribute to America's image among Muslims and others as a callous superpower. He notes that bin Laden himself is a product of ``CIA folly,'' when the agency trained and armed anti-Soviet fighters in Afghanistan only to abandon them after the Soviet Union ended its decade-long occupation in 1989. Carr's book is a call to arms, but it also is a call to prudence in the way we conduct the war on terror. As battles against Osama bin Laden and Hamas, among others, are waged, leaders could do worse than keep in mind the advice of 18th-century jurist Emmerich de Vattel, whose thinking figures prominently in Carr's book: Committing the same sins as the enemy robs ``just causes of their rectitude.'' (Timothy Spence can be contacted via e-mail: tspence(at)hearstnp.com) 
