c.2002 New York Times News Service 	For THURSDAY PMs 	Here are the top news stories from The New York Times News Service for PMs of Thursday, May 2. 	The PMs news desk, 212-556-1927, opens at 7 a.m. Eastern Time. To get story repeats before this hour call 212-621-1595 for reruns on AP DataFeatures or 214-980-8305 or 8367 for repeats on UPI DataNews. 	NYT News Service 	NATIONAL _ GENERAL (Moved in ``a'' category) 	WTC-SCHOOL-CHILDREN (New York) _ Tens of thousands of public school children in New York City are experiencing chronic nightmares, fear of public places, severe anxiety and other mental health problems in the wake of the World Trade Center attack, a study conducted for the Board of Education has found. School officials say the study provides the most comprehensive look ever at the psychological impact of a major disaster on school children. By Abby Goodnough. 1,500 words. 	SCI-AIDS-BLACKS (Washington) _ Blacks get less access than whites to clinical trials for HIV drugs, the New England Journal of Medicine reports. By Sheryl Gay Stolberg. 	SCI-ROBOTIC-RATS (Undated) _ Scientists train rats to act like robots. By Kenneth Chang. 	WASHINGTON _ (Moved in ``w'' category) 	GORE-LIEBERMAN (Walla Walla, Wash.) _ A Political Memo: Al Gore is back in full force on the campaign trail. So is Joe Lieberman. The problem is, they both want to be president. A look at the awkward relationship between the two, how they are positioning themselves for 2002 and, more importantly, for 2004. By Richard L. Berke. 1,400 words. 	BUSINESS DAY _ (Moved in ``f'' category) 	EUROPE-U.S.-STEEL (Undated) _ Robert B. Zoellick, the U.S. trade representative, and Pascal Lamy, the trade commissioner for the European Union, recorded some impressive successes in their first year as counterparts. Yet the dispute over steel tariffs has turned these old friends into public adversaries in advance of their meetings this week in Washington. Though the two remain at odds over some fundamental issues, outsiders say it appears they may be engaged in shadow boxing as each plays to domestic constituencies. An Economic Analysis by Daniel Altman. 	MEXICO-ECONSCENE (Undated) _ The Bush administration is casting about for new ideas on how to use $5 billion of aid a year for poor countries to achieve accountability and results in economic development. It would do well to look south, to the Progresa program in Mexico, for a successful model that has reduced child labor, increased educational levels, and improved health and nutrition for the poor. Alan B. Krueger 	GERMANY-LABOR (Frankfurt, Germany) _ Germany is facing its first wave of strikes since 1995, actions that could derail an emerging economic recovery and may hurt the re-election prospects for Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder's government. The powerful I.G. Metall union says that it will begin strikes on Monday that are expected to be aimed at manufacturing giants like DaimlerChrylser and Siemens. By Edmund L. Andrews. 	COMMENTARY (Moved in ``k'' category) 	Op-Ed columns by William Safire and Bob Herbert. 	SPORTS (Moved in ``s'' category) 	RAC-DERBY-CAREERS (Louisville, Ky.) _ A full field of 20 horses is expected for the 128th Kentucky Derby on Saturday, and at approximately 6:07 p.m. one of them will amble into the most famous winners' circle in America. But if recent history is a guide, the Derby winner will not last long in the nation's sports consciousness, and enthusiasm over the annual quest for a Triple Crown champion will give way to a familiar summertime lament: Where have all the great horses gone? The answer is to the commercial breeding shed where the prospect of millions of dollars has lured potential superstars from the racetrack. By Joe Drape. (Scheduled to move by 9 p.m. ET in ``s'' news file.) 1,600 words. 	BKN-ANDERSON-COLUMN (East Rutherford, N.J.) _ Sports of The Times column on the Nets, who now must win a deciding Game 5 on Thursday night to avoid a first-round knockout in the NBA playoffs. By Dave Anderson. 	ENTERTAINMENT (Moved in ``e'' category) 	NY-AUCTIONS (New York) _ On the eve of next week's important Impressionist, modern and contemporary art auctions in New York, it is startling how radically the landscape of the New York auction houses has changed. By Carol Vogel. 	LUCK-THEATER-REVIEW (New York) _ ``The Man Who Had All the Luck,'' John Smith's 1940 play, subtitled ``A Fable,'' about America and the burdens of unmitigated good fortune, opening in a revival on Broadway at the American Airlines Theater. Reviewed by Bruce Weber. 	LAKE-BOOK-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``Lake Effect,'' by Richard Cohen, reviewed by Janet Maslin. 	BOOK-TALK (Undated) _ The weekly books column. By Martin Arnold. 	CIRCUITS (Moving in ``a'' category) 	CIR-ONLINE-EDUCATION (Undated) _ At the height of the Internet boom, many colleges started ventures aimed at cashing in on online education _ figuring that it would be ``easy, inexpensive to develop and highly profitable,'' as one expert put it. All three assumptions turned out to be mistaken, and now many of the operations are being rethought or abandoned. By Katie Hafner. 	CIR-ROBOT-DOGS (Los Angeles) _ Aibos, the first mass-produced entertainment robot, have grown in popularity in the three years since they were introduced, with more than 100,000 of the creatures _ which cost from $850 to $1,500 _ sold worldwide. By Eric A. Taub. 	CIR-CIRCUITS-COLUMN (Undated) _ The weekly column: Sony text-to-voice software programs that let you load e-mail, Web pages or documents into your MP3 player and hear them read to you later: TextAloudMP3, iSpeak and Text-to-Speech. By David Pogue. 	CIR-GEEK-NOTES (Undated) _ Techno news and notes: 	_ Toshiba handheld, Toshiba Pocket PC e310; 	_ Allen Ginsberg Trust, new site 	_ Wow Digital TV 	_ ATI Remote Wonder, handheld remote control with a USB pod for the PC 	_ Mediaone's XPlay software lets Windows users use the iPod 	CIR-DISPOSABLE-CELLPHONES (Undated) _ Follow-up: Why those disposable cellphones still aren't here. By John Smith. 	CIR-ONLINE-SHOPPING (Undated) _ The weekly feature: Replacing a pair of beloved shoes. By Michelle Slatalla. 	CIR-Q&AMP;A (Undated) _ Techno questions answered: Writing to a CD; mainframe computers; the error message, ``the shortcut to PREMEND.LNK is not available.'' By J.D. Biersdorfer. 	CIR-ANCIENT-BUILDINGS (Undated) _ How archaeologists are using computer modeling to create more realistic views of buildings that are ruined or long gone. By Sam Lubell. 	CIR-GAME-THEORY (Undated) _ The weekly feature: Sega Soccer Slam and World Tour Soccer 2002. By John Smith. 	CIR-KABUKI (Tokyo) _ Inspired by movie special effects, a kabuki production incorporates a computer-generated character onstage. By Micheline Maynard. 	CIR-DELETE (Undated) _ How to delete _ really delete _ files from your computer. By Matt Villano. 	CIR-PICTURE-PASSWORDS (Undated) _ Passwords that use pictures, not words. By Anne Eisenberg. 	HOUSE AND HOME (Moving in ``l'' category) 	HOUSE-PROUD (New York) _ The home of Andrew and Wan Kyun Rha Kim includes Cultural Revolution artifacts and European-style designs interpreted by Chinese artisans. By William L. Hamilton. 	HOME-MOVIE (Palos Hills, Ill.) _ In this quiet suburb southwest of Chicago, an inventor named Ben Skora has transformed a kit house from Sears, Roebuck &AMP; Co. into what he calls a ``futuristic electronic residence.'' With the flick of a switch, a hidden bar rumbles out from a wall panel. From there, it is just a few steps down to the sunken living room, which is rigged to spin at a gentle speed on a turntable hidden beneath plum-colored carpeting. The Skora house is one of five in the documentary film ``Home Movie,'' which opens in New York on Friday. All were designed or renovated by enthusiastic amateurs paying little attention to architectural fashion and even less to resale value. Along with Skora, ``Home Movie'' visits a woman in her 70s who has occupied a Hawaiian treehouse for 30 years; a couple who have rebuilt their San Diego property as a playhouse for their 12 cats; a man who spends his days raising alligators and his nights on an air-conditioned Louisiana houseboat; and a husband and wife who live underground at a former nuclear missile site a few miles outside of Topeka, Kan. By Christopher Hawthorne. 	RUG-AUCTIONS (London) _ Soon-to-be the co-owner of an 1872 brownstone in New York, I had flown to London to bid on Oriental carpets _ as many as I could buy with $10,000 of borrowed money. From the printed estimates published in catalogues and the full-color photographs of each rug, it was evident London was the place to go for a bargain. That's what I thought. By Tracie Rozhon. 	GARDEN-COLUMN (Undated) _ The beguiling world of small grasses. By Marty Ross. 	GARDEN-Q&AMP;A (Undated) _ Gardening questions answered. By Dora Galitzki. 	(Editors: All clients receive all budgets, but only full-service clients receive all stories. Please check your level of service to determine which stories you will receive.) 	NYT News Service 
