The director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency promised members of the New York congressional delegation on Wednesday that the agency would immediately reopen more than 7,000 applications for housing assistance that the agency had denied after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. The director, Joseph M. Allbaugh, said he had ordered the review because of what he called ``a perception that FEMA has denied assistance'' to those who should have received it. He said that the thousands of rejected cases would be reviewed by ``a select group of caseworkers,'' and that steps would be taken to avoid misunderstandings about exactly who is eligible and ``to ensure that all eligible cases are assisted.'' The announcement came after days of increasing criticism in Congress about the agency's performance in responding to the Sept. 11 attacks. To date, the agency has disbursed far less in individual assistance to families economically affected by the attacks than it had in most major disasters, in part because it has rejected 7 out of 10 applicants for housing aid. The problems with the agency's distribution of aid were detailed in The New York Times last week. Allbaugh's decision will affect more than 10,000 past applications for the agency's mortgage and rental assistance program, which covers up to 18 months of mortgage or rent payments for anyone in a major disaster area who lost at least 25 percent of his income ``as a result'' of the catastrophe. Local relief officials at first expected that the FEMA housing aid program would offer just the sort of assistance needed to address the deep, widespread economic damage caused by the terrorist attacks. Government officials have estimated that about 75,000 jobs and $4.5 billion in income were lost to people in the New York disaster region. But interviews and the agency's own records show that those who were rejected included hundreds of Chinatown seamstresses and Manhattan hotel workers, many of them with claims to aid that seemed legitimate. In one case raised with the agency by Reps. Jerrold Nadler and Nita M. Lowey, both New York Democrats, the agency denied help to a disabled veteran who sold hats and gloves on the sidewalks of lower Broadway, even though he provided sworn statements from shopkeepers confirming that he was a regular vendor in the area. ``This was uncharacteristic of FEMA,'' Sen. Charles E. Schumer, D-N.Y., said of the agency's efforts. ``I have a lot of faith that this will be corrected and corrected quickly.'' In a letter to Nadler on Wednesday, Allbaugh encouraged him to forward to the agency ``any specific cases that have not been approved but which appear, such as those mentioned in your letter, to be obvious cases for assistance.'' The housing aid rejection rate, much higher than in previous disasters, is part of the reason that the Federal Emergency Management Agency has provided less than $65 million in individual assistance for families in the disaster area. By comparison, the agency ultimately spent more than $1.4 billion on similar direct financial help to families affected by California's Northridge earthquake in 1994. The agency has acknowledged that one reason the payouts have been low is that thousands of people were denied housing aid after the agency decided to limit benefits to those who could prove that their lost income was a ``direct result'' of the attacks. That new standard, which goes beyond the laws and regulations that have traditionally governed disaster relief efforts, substantially raised the burden of proof on jobless workers trying to qualify. In addition, some agency officials said their housing assistance efforts had been plagued by missteps. In one, some 15,000 people received faulty aid applications that increased the risk they would be denied help. Allbaugh's announcement on Wednesday does not specifically address the new ``direct result'' requirement, which he defended in a recent interview as a fiscally responsible way of preventing unemployed workers far from the designated disaster areas from claiming assistance. But he did agree to meet with members of Congress from the region to discuss the criteria for qualifying for the program, said Sen. Jon S. Corzine, D-N.J. ``FEMA's apparent decision to change the eligibility standard, without any basis in law to do so, could be depriving thousands of the assistance they need to keep their homes, pay their bills and feed their families,'' Corzine noted in a letter to Allbaugh on Tuesday. On Wednesday, Corzine said that Allbaugh indicated that the ``direct result'' standard is ``how he is being told he has to interpret the statute.'' Both Corzine and Schumer said that they had volunteered to work with the federal agency on any statutory changes necessary to extend and improve the housing aid program, which is scheduled to expire this month. Schumer said he had been assured by Allbaugh that New York would ultimately get all the aid it deserved. ``But he is concerned that if we don't clarify the law, people in Cincinnati will claim eligibility for the program,'' Schumer said. The agency's role in the continuing relief efforts in New York and northern Virginia is increasingly important because major charities have for months been cutting back on their aid to economic victims of the attacks, whose unemployment benefits will soon expire. Some officials at the agency, who opposed the tightened standard, say privately that the high rejection rate for the housing aid program demonstrates that thousands of needy families, facing eviction or foreclosure, have been unable to meet the stricter standard. On Sunday, a coalition of community organizations, including the Chinese Staff and Workers Association and the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund, will hold a town hall meeting in front of the Federal Emergency Management Agency's offices at 141 Worth St. in Manhattan to focus attention on problems their members have had in dealing with the agency. 
