Just before Christmas last year, I traveled to Afghanistan and the neighboring countries, where I had the opportunity to spend time with American troops in the field. Among the many I met was an extraordinary group of men: the special forces who had been involved in the attack on Mazar-i-Sharif. From the moment they landed in Afghanistan, these troops began adapting to the circumstances on the ground. They sported beards and traditional scarves and rode horses trained to run into machine gun fire. They used pack mules to transport equipment across some of the roughest terrain in the world. On the appointed day, one of the special forces teams slipped in and hid well behind enemy lines, ready to call in the air strikes. When the moment came, they signaled their targets to coalition aircraft. Then, out of nowhere, a hail of precision-guided bombs began to land on Taliban and al-Qaida positions. The explosions were deafening, and the timing so precise that, as the soldiers described it, hundreds of Afghan horsemen emerged, literally, out of the smoke, riding down on the enemy through clouds of dust and flying shrapnel. They rode boldly _ Afghans and Americans together _ into tank, mortar, artillery and sniper fire. That day, on the plains of Afghanistan, the 19th century met the 21st century and defeated a dangerous and determined adversary _ a remarkable achievement. When President George W. Bush called me back to the Pentagon after a quarter-century away and asked me to come up with a new defense strategy, he knew I was an old-timer. I doubt he imagined for a second we would bring back the cavalry. But this is precisely what transformation is all about. A revolution in military affairs is about more than building new high-tech weapons _ although that is certainly part of it. It is also about new ways of thinking and new ways of fighting. The ability to adapt will be critical in a world defined by surprise and uncertainty. During the Cold War, we faced a fairly predictable set of threats. We knew a good deal about our adversary and its capabilities, and we fashioned the strategies and capabilities needed to deter them. And we were successful. We built a nuclear arsenal and entered the jet age with supersonic fighters. We built nuclear-powered submarines and ships and the first intercontinental-range bombers and missiles. We massed heavy forces in Europe, ready to repel a Soviet tank invasion over the northern German plain, and adopted a strategy of containment _ sending military aid and advisers to destabilize Soviet puppet regimes and support friendly nations threatened by Soviet expansion. For almost half a century, that mix of strategy, forces and capabilities allowed us to keep the peace and defend freedom. But the Cold War is now over and the Soviet Union is gone _ and with it the familiar security environment to which our nation had grown accustomed. As we painfully learned on Sept. 11, the challenges of the new century are not nearly as predictable as were those of the last. Our challenge in this new century is a difficult one: to defend our nation against the unknown, the uncertain, the unseen and the unexpected. That may seem an impossible task. It is not. But to accomplish it, we must put aside comfortable ways of thinking and planning _ take risks and try new things _ so we can deter and defeat adversaries that have not yet emerged to challenge us. Potential adversaries know, for example, that as an open society, the United States is vulnerable to new forms of terrorism. They suspect that U.S. space assets and information networks are vulnerable. They know that America's ability to project force into distant corners of the world depends, in some cases, on vulnerable foreign bases. And they know that we have no defense against ballistic missile attack _ creating an incentive to develop weapons of mass destruction and the means to deliver them. Our job is to close off as many of those avenues of attack as possible. We must prepare for new forms of terrorism, to be sure, but also for attacks on U.S. space assets, cyber-attacks on our information networks, cruise missiles, ballistic missiles, and nuclear, chemical and biological weapons. At the same time, the United States must work to build up its own areas of advantage, such as our ability to project military power over long distances, our precision-strike weapons, and our space, intelligence and undersea warfare capabilities. Before the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington, we had already decided that to keep the peace and defend freedom in the 21st century, the Defense Department must focus on achieving six transformational goals: first, to protect the U.S. homeland and our bases overseas; second, to project and sustain power in distant theaters; third, to deny our enemies sanctuary, making sure they know that no corner of the world is remote enough, no mountain high enough, no cave or bunker deep enough, no SUV fast enough to protect them from our reach; fourth, to protect our information networks from attack; fifth, to use information technology to link up different kinds of U.S. forces so they can fight jointly; and sixth, to maintain unhindered access to space, and protect our space capabilities from enemy attack. Our experiences on Sept. 11 and in the subsequent Afghan campaign have reinforced the need to move the U.S. defense posture in these directions. Our challenge in the 21st century is to defend our cities, friends, allies and deployed forces _ as well as our space assets and computer networks _ from new forms of attack, while projecting force over long distances to fight new adversaries. This will require rapidly deployable, fully integrated joint forces, capable of reaching distant theaters quickly and working with our air and sea forces to strike adversaries swiftly and with devastating effect. This will also take improved intelligence, long-range precision strike capabilities and sea-based platforms to help counter the ``access denial'' capabilities of adversaries. Of course, although transformation requires building new capabilities and expanding arsenals of existing ones, it also means reducing stocks of unnecessary weapons. Just as the country no longer needs a massive, heavy force to repel a Soviet tank invasion, it also no longer needs the many thousands of offensive nuclear warheads amassed during the Cold War to deter a Soviet nuclear attack. At the same time, as we reduce the number of weapons in our nuclear arsenal, we must also refashion it, developing new conventional offensive and defensive systems more appropriate for deterring the potential adversaries we face. And we must ensure the safety and reliability of our nuclear weapons. Of course, as the Pentagon transforms, we must not make the mistake of assuming that the experience in Afghanistan is a model for the next military campaign. Preparing to refight the last war is a mistake repeated through much of military history and one that we must and will avoid. But we can glean important lessons from recent experiences that apply to the future. Here are a few worth considering. First, wars in the 21st century will increasingly require all elements of national power: economic, diplomatic, financial, law enforcement, intelligence, and both overt and covert military operations. Clausewitz said, ``War is the continuation of politics by other means.'' In this century, more of those means may not be military. Second, the ability of forces to communicate and operate seamlessly on the battlefield will be critical to success. In Afghanistan, we saw composite teams of U.S. special forces on the ground, working with Navy, Air Force and Marine Corps pilots in the sky to identify targets and coordinate the timing of air strikes _ with devastating consequences for the enemy. The lesson of this war is that effectiveness in combat will depend heavily on ``jointness'' _ that is, the ability of the different branches of our military to communicate and coordinate their efforts on the battlefield. But achieving jointness in wartime requires building it in peacetime. We must train like we fight and fight like we train. Third, our policy in this war of accepting help from any country, on a basis comfortable for its government, and allowing that country to characterize how it is helping (instead of our creating that characterization for it), is enabling us to maximize both other countries' cooperation and our effectiveness against the enemy. Fourth, wars can benefit from coalitions of the willing, to be sure, but they should not be fought by committee. The mission must determine the coalition, the coalition must not determine the mission, or else the mission will be dumbed down to the lowest common denominator. Fifth, defending the United States requires prevention and sometimes pre-emption. It is not possible to defend against every threat, in every place, at every conceivable time. Defending against terrorism and other emerging threats requires that we take the war to the enemy. The best _ and, in some cases, the only _ defense is a good offense. Sixth, rule nothing out _ including ground forces. The enemy must understand that we will use every means at our disposal to defeat them, and that we are prepared to make whatever sacrifices are necessary to achieve victory. Seventh, getting U.S. special forces on the ground early dramatically increases the effectiveness of an air campaign. Afghanistan showed that precision-guided bombs from the sky are much more effective if we get boots and eyes on the ground to tell the bombers exactly where to aim. And finally, be straight with the American people. Tell them the truth _ and when you cannot tell them something, tell them you cannot tell them. The American people understand what we are trying to accomplish, what is needed to get the job done, that it will not be easy and that there will be casualties. And they must know that, good news or bad, we will tell it straight. Broad bipartisan public support must be rooted in a bond of trust, understanding and common purpose. Our men and women in uniform are doing a brilliant job in the war on terrorism. We are grateful to them _ and proud. And the best way we can show our appreciation is to make sure that they have the resources, the capabilities and the innovative culture not only to win today's war, but to deter and, if necessary, defeat the aggressors we will surely face in the dangerous century ahead. (Donald H. Rumsfeld is the secretary of Defense.) 
