When Larry Zicklin, the president of the UJA-Federation of New York, a Jewish charity, thought in early March that he might organize a package tour to Israel, few people seemed interested. But after the Passover killings on March 27, and with reports of a rising wave of anti-Semitism in Europe, all that changed. By last Sunday, 164 people had signed up. One was Joe Cooper, an elderly stockbroker, returning to Israel as he had at the time of previous wars in 1967, 1973 and 1991. ``The world has taught us that if we do not support ourselves we will lose the right to exist, and that has never been more important than now,'' he says. His sentiments are echoed by a frail elderly woman, Leah Tolpin. ``We always go,'' she says, ``when there's trouble.'' Howard Waxman, who is in New York real estate, intended to spend his holidays cycling in France. Instead, because France no longer seemed to deserve visitors but Israel did, he found himself sipping a soft drink in a Sparro's Restaurant in downtown Jerusalem that was bombed several months ago. ``There should be at least one person coming here,'' he says. The American visitors speak of the shared legacy of facing anti-Semitism, of losing relatives in the Holocaust, and of awe for Israel's progress over the years. They fear that tolerance for the repressive regimes on Israel's borders could mean that all this is lost. If more noise about this is made in America than elsewhere, says Lee Podair, a lawyer who grew up in the Bronx, it is because in America there is enough freedom to do so. Their visit starts with a lecture. Detailed maps of Jerusalem give each Arab and Israeli residential area in minute detail, showing how hard it will be to draw the borders of a new Palestinian state. Then there is a trip to the Gilo housing development on Jerusalem's rim, which has been the target of snipers. At a hospital, a 14-year-old girl tells how she was hit by more than 100 pieces of shrapnel while standing outside a coffee house, and two Israeli border guards recount how they were shot while protecting children in a park from a terrorist. Other soldiers describe, from their point of view, the fighting in Jenin. Across the broad spectrum of Jews in America there are varied opinions about Israel, as there are about Judaism itself. Many American Jews are appalled by the recent military actions, and some even believe that, given the intractabilities of the Middle East, Israel really should cease to exist. A decade ago, when the outlook for peace in the Middle East seemed bright and Israel's economy was prospering, Zicklin's organization was on the point of shifting some of its efforts in Israel to projects in Russia and Argentina. Yet since the attacks began again two years ago, support for Israel among American Jews has grown dramatically, Zicklin says. Contributions to his charity are rising fast, and are now being used to provide emergency help such as shelters. Another traveler on the package tour, Bernard Nussbaum, a New York lawyer and former counsel to President Bill Clinton, says Arafat's efforts have produced a result few thought possible: a growing sense of unity among America's Jews. 
