Ever since that unfortunate incident with Little Miss Muffett, spiders have gotten a terribly bad rap. That will change this summer _ yes, it's already summer at the movies, no matter what your calendar says _ thanks to ``Spider-Man,'' an audience-friendly, if not overly original comic book film that has the legs _ the hairy, spindly kind _ to become a series franchise for years to come. The idea that a spider's strength, smarts, agility and web tricks would make a good candidate for super-hero first occurred to Stan Lee and Steve Ditko in 1962. They released a Marvel comic about high school student Peter Parker, who becomes a human arachnid from a bite by an escaped, genetically altered super spider. The only puzzle is why it has taken 40 years for Spidey to get the full-blown, big-budget feature film treatment, but the timing works in the transfer's favor. It allows the inspired casting of Tobey Maguire in the title role and a flame-haired Kirsten Dunst as the object of his unspoken adoration, Mary Jane Watson. Action fans may get impatient, but screenwriter David Koepp (''Panic Room'') and director Sam Raimi (back to his ``Evil Dead,'' ``Darkman'' roots) take time to establish the emotional underpinnings of the Spider-Man mythology before giving way to the good-versus-evil fight-to-the-finish pyrotechnics. Misfit Peter lives in Archie Bunker-land, a working class neighborhood of Queens, where he pines for Mary Jane and yearns to graduate and get a job in Manhattan as a photographer. Orphaned, he lives with his Norman Rockwell-issued Aunt May (Rosemary Harris) and Uncle Ben (Cliff Robertson) and while they don't have much to do, give Raimi extra points for unusual but classy casting. Anyway, the spider bites Peter, he starts discovering his new spider-like powers and in an amusing sequence that kids pro wrestling, he takes on the champ for a promised purse of $3,000. He wins, gets bilked out of the money and decides to use his skills instead to fight criminals, of which New York seems to have no shortage. But every super-hero needs a worthy nemesis. Enter wealthy military arms dealer Norman Osborn (Willem Dafoe), under pressure to deliver on an experimental ``human performance enhancer'' or risk losing his government grants. (How's that for a modern motivation?) He chugs an untested formula and turns into the metal-fortified Green Goblin, whose face is frozen in a maniacal smile, and who takes to riding around on a jet-propelled boogie board causing as much havoc as Spider-Man can keep up with. Dafoe is clearly having fun with an over-the-top performance that plays off his character's Jekyll-and-Hyde nature. Meanwhile, in shades of Superman and Lois Lane, Spidey keeps rescuing the frequently-in-jeopardy Mary Jane. She becomes infatuated with the spandex-covered hero, never guessing that he is actually meek Parker. Then again, so much of Maguire is obscured by his outfit that even his mother wouldn't recognize him. For that matter, we're going to have to take Raimi's word that Maguire is actually under the mask and web-trimmed suit. Whoever it is, he sure can move. Production designer Neil Spisak (''Face/Off'') and visual effects designer John Dykstra (''Star Wars'') built a glossy skyscraper canyon New York in their computers and they whip Spider-Man through it in a manner that brings to mind an urban Tarzan. With his web tendrils, he swings from building to building with an animal agility. Not bad for a character who used to trip in the aisle of the school bus. Peter Parker is not much of a stretch for Maguire, being a close relative to his roles in ``The Ice Storm'' and ``Cider House Rules,'' but he does these awkward, well-meaning innocents very well. Dunst is similarly not taxed as the damsel perpetually in distress, but her dimple is a screen-melter and her lip lock with an upside-down Spidey in the pouring rain is enough to fog anyone's glasses. Those looking for a message can satisfy themselves with the oft-repeated mantra, ``With great power comes great responsibility.'' But don't worry, the message doesn't get in the way of the fun. Profound, it's not, but Raimi makes the movie entertaining enough that both kids and adults will probably be pleased to get caught in Spider-Man's web. Hap Erstein writes for The Palm Beach Post. E-mail: haperstein(at)pbpost.com SPIDER-MAN Grade: B+ Rated PG-13: comic book violence. Running time: 2 hours The verdict: well-acted comic book tale, with a balance of character and special effects. Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
