Poor and middle-class families have had to use a steadily larger portion of their income to attend the nation's public universities over the last two decades, as state spending on higher education and financial aid to students lagged behind steep rises in tuition, according to a study released on Wednesday by an independent research organization. The study found that, on average, poor families spent 25 percent of their annual income for their children to attend public four-year colleges in 2000, compared with 13 percent in 1980. For middle-class families, the percentage of annual income nearly doubled as well, to about 7 percent from 4 percent. For the wealthiest families, there was no increase. While the average amount each state spent on higher education per student rose by 13 percent over that period, to $6,747, state institutions raised their tuition and fees by 107 percent, to $3,512, the study found. ``All of these trends are unhealthy for the future of educational opportunity in this country,'' said Patrick Callan, the president of the National Center for Higher Education in San Jose, Calif., which commissioned the study with the support of the Ford Foundation and the Pew Charitable Trusts. ``If we continue at this pace for the next 10 to 20 years, we'll choke off a lot of opportunity.'' The study, overseen by an advisory committee that included David W. Breneman, a prominent education economist from the University of Virginia, is expected to add fuel to a growing national debate over the affordability of the nation's public universities, which were created to make higher education accessible to those who could least afford it. Another recent study, by the economists Michael McPherson and Morton Owen Schapiro, found that the percentage of high-achieving students who do not enroll in college is five times higher among those who are poor than those who are rich. Breneman, who is the dean of the Curry School of Education, said he hoped the report would help reverse the course of higher education financing in the 1990s, which he characterized as ``an explosion of financial aid programs aimed at middle- and upper-income groups,'' including tuition tax credits supported by the Clinton administration and merit-based aid programs like the Hope Scholarships in Georgia. ``Where are the poor?'' he asked. ``The whole issue of access for low income folks got lost in the dust.'' The study, titled ``Losing Ground,'' found some fault with government. The authors criticized state lawmakers for not increasing aid at the same rate as college costs, and decreasing it in times of recession, and they lamented that the federal Pell Grant program, which is aimed at the neediest students, covered only 57 percent of tuition at public four-year colleges in 1999, compared with 98 percent in 1986. But in an interview, Callan, the president of the organization that initiated the study, said the universities bore a great deal of responsibility. Among the factors that had sent public universities' costs spiraling upward, he said, were bidding wars for the best students and faculty members and ambitious plans to open research centers with marginal educational value. ``Everyone wants to be Harvard or Berkeley or Michigan,'' Callan said. ``It's very expensive.'' Among those states cited by the study as widening the gap in affordability over the last 10 years were Alabama, which raised tuition at public four-year universities by 41 percent (to $3,261 from $2,313) while decreasing state-awarded financial aid by 45 percent (to $46 per student from $84); Arizona, which raised tuition by 24 percent (to $2,486 from $2,007) while decreasing financial aid by 50 percent (to $14 per student from $28); and Hawaii, which increased tuition 79 percent (to $3,253 from $1,814) while decreasing financial aid grants to students by 44 percent (to $11 from $20). Among the study's recommendations were that states take family income into account when cutting aid to higher education and encourage students to earn some college credit in high school, perhaps by testing out of entry-level college courses. 
