Koji Orita was looking for a way to stage a kabuki play that tells of a mythical creature who escapes from a river and becomes the companion of a bumbling fisherman. He found his solution watching the movie ``Terminator 2.'' Inspired by the computer graphics techniques used to turn Arnold Schwarzenegger into a cyborg, Orita created an animated creature that sang, ate and conversed onstage during the play, ``Aki No Kappa,'' performed in March at the National Theater of Japan. The show was a milestone for kabuki, a 600-year-old art form in which men play all the parts and the sets and the acting style are guided by tradition. ``We wanted to show an audience that we could create a new type of play, even within the old arts of Japan,'' said Orita, who has been a kabuki director for 30 years. ``Aki No Kappa'' had won a competition for new kabuki plays in 1982 but had never been staged. The script did not call for the water creature, or kappa, to be seen by the audience. It was meant to be imaginary, like the giant rabbit in ``Harvey.'' But Orita wanted it to be visible to the audience, like the ghost of Hamlet's murdered father. Years before, Orita had visited the Universal Studios theme park near Los Angeles, where technicians explained special effects techniques used in movies. But the kappa could not be filmed because it had to react to the other actors onstage. Orita began scouting in Tokyo for computer technicians familiar with real-time motion systems, which combine three-dimensional computer graphics with animation to make characters that can move and speak. First, the theater's art department made a detailed drawing of the kappa. The picture was scanned into a computer and translated into a series of mathematical calculations. Orita, meanwhile, selected an actor from the Kabuki Co. to play the kappa offstage. The actor was wired with sensors at 12 key joints on his body. The sensors fed movement data into the computer, which transmitted it to matching points on the cartoon version of the kappa. The information created a hologram that was projected on a 67-inch screen. Each time the actor moved, the kappa moved, too. Getting from concept to live performance required some ingenuity and cooperation from the cast. It was the first time the computer experts had worked with kabuki actors, said Orita, who called the play ``a test case.'' Despite the complexity of the task, he said, the addition of the kappa required only one more day of rehearsal than other plays. Along the way, the computers occasionally froze, leaving the kappa in suspended animation. And more than once, an error message was transmitted to the screen instead of the kappa. When that would happen, an actor would jump in front of the screen, arms outstretched, as if to keep the audience from seeing the mishap. The play's three-week run was glitch-free and almost a sellout. And Orita says the kappa will come back to the National Theater. He plans to use the kappa and its wife and child (who are not depicted in the play) as the virtual guides for an interactive kabuki education center that the theater expects to open next year. Orita said that computerized characters were likely to appear in future kabuki shows. Already the technology is more refined, meaning that actors will not need to be tethered to sensors, he said. He believes that the animated characters will someday be able to move and speak on their own. The new methods have enlivened an ancient tradition, Orita said, providing new proof that ``kabuki is a performance art that is very much alive and kicking.'' 
