In reality, they should carry a hangtag proclaiming ``Beware of Cute.'' There's nothing worse than cute to turn a fashionable female into a fashion victim in seconds. Fashion designers -- hardly babes-in-arms themselves -- apparently have turned to children's departments, vintage collections of cutesy-poo fashions from the 1950s and '60s, to come up with silhouettes and details for spring and summer. These flirty looks from the past are showcased in fashion magazines, on store mannequins, TV fashionistas and movie stars. People are still talking about the sheer, ruched top Gwyneth Paltrow was wearing on Oscar night. A tank top with a ruffled neckline or a ruffled-from-neck-to-hem cocktail dress that looks like a piece of lingerie may appear fresh and new. But are they for you? It depends, said Elaine Farley, beauty and fashion director at Cosmopolitan magazine. ``You have to be careful of baby-doll looks,'' she said during a phone interview from her New York office. ``They're great on twentysomethings. On older women, they just look frumpy.'' Farley, a thirtysomething, said she has been struggling with what to wear. She prefers simple shapes, few frills. If she is going to jump on the ultra-feminine trend, she said it's going to be by pairing a girlie top with something basic like a pair of jeans. Although the April issue of her magazine features a model in a sleeveless dress with layers of crinolines peeking from beneath, she said the outrageous petticoats are only for the eccentric. ``Crinolines were fun for a picture. Our pages are meant to surprise and entertain you as well as tell a fashion story. They're not meant to be copied head to toe, ruffle to ruffle,'' Farley said. Baby boomers who are fiftyish or about to be can wear a skirt with a ruffle at the hem, or perhaps a T-shirt with some lace trim. But not together. Her advice is to pick one or the other. Tiny floral prints like those made famous by Liberty of London are another feminine option that works for all ages, especially if the print is used for a classic shirt and paired with white jeans, for example. Those same prints in shirtwaist dresses are another feminine alternative. Farley said this girlie trend started about a year ago. ``It's a `Sex in the City' look. Sarah Jessica Parker has had a lot to do with it,'' she said. It's also reminiscent of a more innocent time. Seattle-based fashion adviser Audrey Beaulac, owner of Imago Consulting Services, calls today's girlie fashions a return to that ``peace-era look'' -- a look, ironically, that was flourishing as the war in Vietnam was expanding. She sees the current trend as a mixture of ethnic diversity, a 1960s theme right down to the last macrame belt, turquoise jewelry, fringe and lace (not to mention military action overseas). ``It's very girlie and I think there's also this attitude that it's OK to be feminine again,'' Beaulac said. ``But if you wore it in the '60s, don't do it again.'' Like Farley, Beaulac recommends adopting this look a piece at a time, especially if you're old enough to remember the 1960s. ``You want to glance back to the past, not stare at it,'' Beaulac said. A blouse with a cascade of ruffles down the front, for example, can give a business suit a more feminine look. Bell-bottoms can help balance the proportion of rounder hips. Sheer fabrics can make evening apparel more glamorous. A bit of lacing detail on a jacket can let the world know you're hip without making an outrageous fashion statement. ``You don't want your clothes delivering a message that isn't yours,'' Beaulac warned. Accessories are one way to update a wardrobe. But if you choose to carry an elaborately beaded or embellished bag, skip the shawl and beaded shoes, she advised. ``Don't wear too much of anything. Don't overdo these looks. But if you're under 30, wear it all. Youth is so forgiving,'' Beaulac said. Today's girlie looks borrow from so many fashion eras it helps to have a dictionary handy to keep everything straight: Puffed sleeves, also known as ``Juliet'' sleeves (look for them onstage at Shakespeare plays) perch like cupcakes between armhole and upper arm. Fabric is gathered at the top before insertion into the sleeve opening so it poufs out from the shoulder. Fabric is then gathered onto a band that ends around the top half of the upper arm. They're natural accompaniments to smocked baby dresses in pastels. Flabby or dimpled adult arms should bypass these. Baby-doll dresses usually have an empire waist, a full but short skirt, and possibly the above-mentioned puffed sleeves. They're closely related to baby-doll pajamas. Crinolines are stiff petticoats that make full skirts look fuller. To put it bluntly, the wearer looks like an opened umbrella from the waist down. Some crinolines are five layers deep. Don't even think about tucking one of these under the steering wheel and driving off. They don't sit well. Ruching is basically a two-sided ruffle. Fold fabric into horizontal pleats, run a seam down the middle, and it's ruched. It resembles an Austrian shade. It's been in fashion's mausoleum for years, but historically it was sometimes used on bodices to ``accentuate the positive.'' Peasant blouses are usually white with puffed short or long sleeves, sometimes an elastic or drawstring neckline, and embroidered trim. Flower children of the 1960s should look, remember and avoid. 
