The first necklace Allison Ferris made was from several pieces of her mother's macaroni and some wooden beads she found around the house. She was 10. While her epicurean jewelry never fueled a childhood hobby, Ferris's love for accessories never ended. For most of her growing up and her adulthood she did what most jewelry lovers do, bought other people's designs -- and spent a heap of money doing that. But when a friend explained she made much of the jewelry that she wore and that Ferris admired so much, Ferris became convinced that she could make her own. ``I basically would like to have accessories to match every outfit, and I thought this would be perfect. Instead of paying for all the jewelry I wanted, I decided to make it myself,'' said Ferris, a director of corporate relations at Fleet Specialists in Manhattan. Ferris began making beaded jewelry in August 2001, outfitting herself and, eventually, many of her office colleagues. Hers is not quite a full-fledged business but she is currently designing a Web site to pitch her necklaces, bracelets and earrings crafted from the beads her friend led her to. Retailers say the work of Ferris and others like her represents a new trend in everything from necklaces to summer footwear, pocketbooks to adornable clothing being outfitted with beads. They are using beads made of stones like tourmaline, turquoise, aquamarine, coral and myriad other semiprecious stones in the budding cottage industry of homemade jewelry. Given the popularity of beads on clothes and accessories, homemade jewelry making is becoming more than just a hobby but an outlet for earning a second income and, in some cases, an alternate career. Rio Grande, a national bead supplier based in Albuquerque, N.M., does not give specific figures because it does not want that information in the hands of its competitors. But Valeria Hensen, marketing manager for the company, said those making jewelry as a sidelight or personal hobby represent a sizable chunk of bead consumers. ``They sell it first to friends and family and then move it to conferences, trade shows and even stores,'' Hensen said. ``There are pretty good outlets to market these products and do it as a second income.'' Some bead supply stores credit the fashion world with driving the recent surge in popularity of homemade beaded jewelry. ``If you look at the Oscars in the last couple of years,'' said Susan Schnegg, manager of Beadworks, a supplier in Norwalk, Conn., ``they've all been wearing beaded jewelry. That's where the business is moving. The fashion industry is moving this way, and people move where the fashion industry does.'' ``Beaded jewelry was popular in the '60s, '70s and '80s,'' said Melanie Rose, manager of Beadz, a bead store in Larchmont, an upscale suburb of New York City. ``Now they're retro, so they're popular again.'' Though she had no hard statistics to prove it, Rose said ample anecdotal evidence shows that more women are making their own jewelry rather than purchasing it at relatively pricey stores such as Henri Bendel. Most often, clients come into bead supply stores with images of pieces they'd like to duplicate in hand. ``They see a design that they like in an article that is very fashionable,'' said Lisa Ng, a salesperson in the newly opened NYC Beads Inc. in Manhattan. ``They try to do the same. We see that a lot.'' As for her creations, Ferris said they instantly drew attention at her office, a place where, as she describes it, one business suit looks like another. ``Women who have never thought about accessorizing their business suits,'' Ferris said, ``they're now planning their outfits around the jewelry I've made for them and are excited to see the new items I've made.'' Tina Tang, founder, president, jewelry designer for Web-based Tinatang.com, left her job as an equities trader at Goldman Sachs four years ago to pursue the artistic outlet that would become her living. She calls her work classy, yet not conservative. Her jewelry has landed on the pages of such magazines as Instyle, Jane, Modern Bride and Bride. ``Magazine editorials are your best plug,'' Tang said. ``People really respond to that.'' Having her work exposed that way, Tang said, helped her get her pieces posted and marketed on Web sites such as redenvelope.com, an online retailer of higher end goods, and 1-800-flowers.com. Like Ferris, she started out selling to friends at work and, when she had cultivated a sufficient following, she quit her job to commit more time to her craft. Ferris has purchased some of Tang's pieces and admits she helped inspire her to try to make her beading a second income. ``She has beautiful stuff,'' Ferris said. ``I looked at how she made things just to see how a professional would do it, because I was never taught.'' With her potpourri of Jet Czech crystal necklaces, six-strand amethyst bracelets and her carnelian and jade pendant necklaces in demand, Ferris may soon find herself abandoning one career to run her own jewelry design business full time. Tang never questioned that move on her part. After four years of successful entrepreneurship, she says she would never go back to her old job on Wall Street. ``Once you get a taste of working for yourself,'' Tang said, ``You never want to go back.'' (EDITORS: There is no charge for use of this story, but please send a tearsheet to Professor Stephen D. Isaacs, Columbia News Service, Graduate School of Journalism, Columbia University, 2950 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10027.) 
