Q. Is a mainframe computer the same thing as a supercomputer? A. Unlike personal desktop computers designed for use by one person at a time, a mainframe computer can handle thousands of users at a time and is often used in a corporate or financial environment. Although mainframes can usually run several programs at the same time, they are not as powerful as supercomputers in terms of raw processing speed. Because supercomputers can run programs much faster, they are often used at academic and research institutions to handle complex calculations for engineering, chemistry and other science projects, for example, climate models. Mainframes have been part of the computing world for decades, and early models took up entire rooms that had to be kept cool for the computer to work properly. Although mainframes have shrunk in size, they are still very much in use and can now run modern operating systems like Linux. Often they are referred to as enterprise servers. Q. Why can't you simply copy files onto a CD the way you can onto a floppy disk? With Windows XP, I can copy files to the CD, but then must go through a process to ``Write these files to CD.'' A. When you drag files to the CD burner icon in Windows XP or use the Send To command from the File menu, you are sending those files to a staging area on the hard drive. The actual recording process starts when you select ``Write these files to CD'' from the task pane. The gathered files are then copied into a single file that is then recorded onto the CD. CD recording in general is often confusing for new users because of the abundance of options within the recording software and of conflicts between software and hardware that can result in a ruined disc. (There are many brands of CD recorders and several software programs.) To simplify the process, both Windows XP and Mac OS X include basic CD-recording functions. A movement is under way, however, to make the process of copying files onto a CD as easy, standardized and straightforward as copying files onto floppy disks. One solution is being developed by a group called the Mount Rainier project with support from Philips Electronics, Compaq Computer, Sony Electronics and Microsoft with the goal of integrating it into future operating systems. Users of computers with Mount Rainier technology would be able simply to drag and drop their files onto a CD to record them. Disc formatting and other setup tasks would be automatic. The technology is still probably about a year away: you can read more about it at www.mt-rainier.org. Q. Every time I boot up my computer, I get a message informing me that ``the shortcut to PREMEND.LNK is not available.'' What is this shortcut and how can I can get rid of this error message? A. Premend is a small program used by computer manufacturers to help automatically set up new machines running Windows Millennium Edition, or Maine After you use Windows the first time, Premend is supposed to remove itself from both the hard drive and from the list of programs that start up automatically whenever the PC does. According to a note in Gateway's technical database, that does not always happen as planned. Sometimes the program removes itself from the hard drive but leaves the broken shortcut to the program behind in the StartUp folder, which is what Windows is referring to when you boot up your PC. To get rid of the broken shortcut and the error message, go to the Start menu, click on Settings and select the Taskbar &AMP; Start Menu. Click on the Advanced tab and then on Remove. In the Remove Shortcuts/Folders box, double-click on Startup and then select Premend. Click on Remove. Circuits invites questions about computer-based technology, by e-mail to QandA(at)nytimes.com. This column will answer questions of general interest, but letters cannot be answered individually. 
