The $952 million spacecraft _ a collaboration between scientists from the United States, Japan and Brazil _ is equipped with a half-dozen instruments that will study how moisture that circulates in Earth's atmosphere interacts with the planet's terrain, its oceans and polar caps. Those findings should help scientists better understand a range of complex environmental mysteries that may influence long-term warming and cooling trends, as well as unexpected onslaughts of severe weather. ``We are really entering a new era in Earth observations from space,'' said Ghassem Asrar, NASA's associate administrator for Earth sciences. The 55-foot-long spacecraft is also equipped to make global temperature and humidity measurements throughout the lowest levels of the Earth's atmosphere, the region that is most active meteorologically. Aqua is scheduled to be launched at 4:56 a.m. Saturday from Vandenberg Air Force Base, Calif. Boosted by a Delta rocket, the spacecraft will be lofted into a 438-mile-high polar orbit for observations of the Earth spanning at least a half-dozen years. The space agency expects the new spacecraft to be fully functional within four months. If the timetable holds, measurements from the spacecraft could make their way to National Weather Service forecasters soon after. As the measurements are combined with computer forecasting models, the spacecraft's readings could become a new tool for improving the accuracy of three- to five-day weather predictions, Asrar said. The unprecedented accuracy of the measurements gathered by Aqua should help experts examine a variety of environmental relationships with a new precision, said Asrar. The spacecraft is equipped to look for links between cloud cover and climate change, variations in soil moisture, changes in the thickness of polar and glacial ice cover as well as ozone. At the same time, the spacecraft will measure how much energy is beamed to the Earth by the sun, and how much is reflected away by clouds, moisture in the atmosphere and the Earth's surface. Even subtle changes in the solar energy levels that reach the planet can influence the climate. Satellites already circling the Earth are making some of the same observations that Aqua will. But many of the moisture and temperature measurements have been possible previously only by using weather balloons, which has left the oceans and much of Asia, Africa and South America unobserved. XXX END OF STORY 
