RADIO SAWA EXPORTS U.S. VALUES TO YOUNG ARABS ATTENTION EDITORS: This article from the NEWHOUSE NEWS SERVICE report of THURSDAY, MAY 2, 2002, is available as a ``separate buy.'' For information about purchasing the article, contact DEBRA WEYDERT of The New York Times Syndicate at 732-390-4480; fax, 732-390-4697; e-mail, weyded(at)nytimes.com Art advisory: With three photos, of Norman Pattiz (NNS7), of Reem Abaza (NNS8) and of Mouafac Harb (NNS9) For information about purchasing art call 202-383-7824 Two optional trims to 850 words By MARK O'KEEFE c.2002 Newhouse News Service WASHINGTON _ From a cramped studio in a nondescript government building, a young Egyptian woman reads the day's news in Arabic for ``the new station for the new generation,'' those 25-and-under in the Middle East. Radio Sawa is on the air, broadcasting a formatted mix of Arabic and Western pop hits on a growing network of AM, FM and satellite frequencies throughout the Arab world. Fully funded by American taxpayers, the network is the brainchild of a California media mogul and wealthy contributor to former President Clinton. Foreign critics call it clever propaganda. But Democrats and Republicans alike praise the network as the most creative idea they've heard in years to connect with a region increasingly hostile to U.S. foreign policy. The strategy _ attracting a large audience with music, then working in news, editorials, roundtable discussions and caller comments _ is hailed as a prototype for the U.S. government to export American values and ideas to young people in other parts of the world. ``Maybe they don't like American policy, especially toward the Middle East, but they love everything else that's American,'' said Reem Abaza, 30, who delivers ``news of the moment'' 15 and 45 minutes after the hour. ``Maybe they won't listen to U.S. government officials, but they will listen to American songs. ``And as long as the news sounds objective, people won't feel suspicious about it.'' Radio Sawa's name, which means ``radio together'' in Arabic, comes from extensive market research, long a staple of commercial radio but a new concept to the Voice of America, which has been the government's overseas broadcasting arm since World War II. Research drives this project. It's responsible, for example, for the knowledge that the most popular Arab artists among Egyptian youth are Amr Diab and Mohammed Fouad and that in Bahrain it's not unusual for youth to bounce to the baritone beat of Tom Jones. (The 62-year-old Welsh singer was the highest-rated Western artist there, scoring above the Spice Girls and Michael Jackson, according to surveys by Edison Media Research.) Music mixes will be customized for various areas. News call-in shows will be hosted by broadcasters in the predominant dialects of five different regions: Egypt, Iraq, Jordan/Palestine, Sudan, and the Persian Gulf area of Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. ``You will think you're listening to a local radio show,'' said Voice of America spokeswoman Joan Mower. ``It won't be like you're in New York listening to someone with an Alabama accent. You'll hear a New York accent.'' Radio Sawa launched March 23, carried on FM 98.1 in Jordan and FM 95.7 in Kuwait. It can also be heard on the satellite channels of Nilesat, Arabsat and Eutelsat Hotbird, which reaches listeners with radio satellite dishes throughout the Middle East. By September 2003 more than a dozen FM frequencies _ preferred by young Arabs seeking music _ as well as a handful of long-range AM frequencies are planned. The aggressive schedule and insistence on research instead of guesswork comes from Norman Pattiz, the driving force behind Radio Sawa and the founder and chairman of Westwood One, the country's largest radio programmer. Bill Clinton appointed Pattiz, who has contributed hundreds of thousands of dollars to Democrats, to serve on the Broadcasting Board of Governors two years ago. The board, responsible for government-sponsored international broadcasting, has nine members: four Democrats, four Republicans and the secretary of state. Last year, Pattiz visited the Middle East, where he closely examined what was then called Voice of America Arabic, broadcast primarily on shortwave. He learned that the effort cost $4 million a year, but that 98 percent of potential listeners had never even heard of it. Pattiz had a different idea. He recommended targeting those 25-and-under, who make up nearly 60 percent of the population in the Arab world. Shortwave, a frequency not favored by Arab youth, would be replaced by AM and FM, along with digital satellite channels. Instead of continuing to buy chunks of time on Mideast frequencies, which might broadcast a speech by the U.S. secretary of state only to have local commentators denounce it a few minutes later, Voice of America would provide its own attractive programming 24 hours a day, seven days a week. (FIRST OPTIONAL TRIM BEGINS) Championed by Sen. Joseph Biden, D-Del., a Pattiz friend, the plan garnered immediate bipartisan support and $35 million for fiscal 2002. More than $16 million of that was for building new transmitters, a one-time cost. ``After Sept. 11,'' Pattiz said, the idea ``became a slam dunk.'' Pattiz, 59, has a Beverly Hills buzz-cut of gray hair and sports an NBA championship ring given to him by the Los Angeles Lakers' Shaquille O'Neal. His can-do enthusiasm has energized Washington workers at Voice of America and impressed members of Congress. In April, testifying about Radio Sawa to a congressional appropriations subcommittee, Pattiz wore the traditional dark suit, but with a bright violet tie and facial stubble. Some might have thought such flashy style would not go over with a Republican president from Texas. But in a February radio address in honor of Voice of America's 60th anniversary, George W. Bush singled out Pattiz for ``his perseverance and dedication'' to a project that will help those in the Middle East ``better understand American principles and American actions.'' (FIRST OPTIONAL TRIM ENDS) Radio Sawa is geared to balance anti-U.S. government messages aired on the influential television network Al-Jazeera and other Arabic-speaking media outlets. ``There is in fact a media war going on in the Middle East,'' Pattiz said, ``and the weapons of that war include disinformation, incitement to violence, hate radio, government censorship and journalistic self-censorship. The opinions that the Arab street has of the United States of America come out of that environment. ``We haven't had a horse in this race. But we do now.'' (SECOND OPTIONAL TRIM FOLLOWS) How fast that horse is running won't be known for several months, when the first listener surveys are conducted. But Mideast expert Shibley Telhami, the Anwar Sadat Professor for Peace and Development at the University of Maryland, predicts Radio Sawa's music format will eventually attract a large audience. ``The greater question,'' Telhami said, ``is how will we present the news in a way that will appeal to them when they're so hostile to us? They have many other news options that speak to their own hearts.'' Radio Sawa news director Mouafac Harb said the network will try to be ``a voice of moderation'' that ``calms down the anti-Americanism in the region.'' Multiple viewpoints will be presented, including some critical of the United States, demonstrating the American value of embracing diversity, said Harb, a Lebanese-American who is the former Washington bureau chief for Al-Hayat, an Arabic-language newspaper. ``There's a tendency in that part of the world, for many reasons, to cater to emotions. We're not in that business. We're going to present the news in an objective, fair and accurate way, according to the best Western journalistic standards. ``The only difference is it will be in Arabic.'' LF END O'KEEFE (Mark O'Keefe can be contacted at mark.okeefe(at)newhouse.com) 
