You began to believe this would be a unique Kentucky Derby when you learned that on Saturday they will honor a jockey who won this race as recently as 100 years ago. Churchill Downs will celebrate the centennial of Jimmy Winkfield's historic ride, and for this poignant week, an era long gone and almost forgotten will be remembered once again. Winkfield was the last African-American to win the world's premier race when he brought home Alan-a-Dale in 1902. He was the fourth jockey to win the Run for the Roses in back-to-back years, having won a year earlier with His Eminence. In two other trips, he finished second and third. He represents an almost lost slice of racing legend, indeed a piece of America itself. Black jockeys dominated the sport at the turn of the 20th century, winning 15 of the first 28 Kentucky Derbies. They faded from view as racing prospered and the Derby began to take on the epic status it owns today. White owners in the South elected to give their rides to white jockeys. Winkfield went to Europe, where kings and queens had already laid their claim to horse racing, and the crowds were grand, as were the purses. Others had gone before him, and greater numbers would follow, white and black. His life turned out to be a drama worthy of the great Russian novelists. He trained and rode horses for Jack Keene in Poland and in czarist Russia, where in 1904 he won their triple crown _ the derbies of Moscow, Warsaw and St. Petersburg. In his prime, he was earning the equivalent of 100,000 American dollars. The story is untrue that he rode for the Czar himself. He did ride for a Russian noble, a baron whose daughter he married. When the Bolsheviks overthrew the government in 1919, his wife's family was in danger, and they fled to Bucharest and Poland, by foot and by train. With other riders, Winkfield made a daring, heroic and tragic attempt to take 200 thoroughbreds with them. Few finished the grueling journey healthy enough to race again. Most became food for the famished. Jimmy would survive one civil war, two world wars and the endless battle for racial justice. He came from a generation of horsemen who rode fast, lived fast and were used up early, much like the horses they rode. Incredibly, Winkfield lived to be 92, dying in France in March 1974. His daughter, Liliane Casey, 77, lives in Cincinnati with other family members. One granddaughter, Lydia Winfield, wound up in Houston, of all places. She earned her master's degree in social work at the University of Houston and today works for a health care company, United Behavioral. We spoke to her Wednesday as she took a break from her office computer. While her Aunt Liliane was being flooded with media requests, Lydia was startled and flattered to take a phone call and have a TV crew poised to visit later in the day. The grandkids called him ``Gran-pere,'' and Lydia recalls receiving a plane ticket and expenses to visit him at his farm in France, at Maisons-Lafitte, in 1973, as a high school graduation present. It was the year before he died. ``Gran-pere said the secret to his long life,'' she confided, ``was taking a thimble full of Johnnie Walker before lunch and dinner. He would smack his lips and say, `That is good for my appetite.' He taught me how to cook fried chicken, using cornbread instead of flour, the Kentucky style. I had to bring him several bags of cornmeal when I went to Paris. ``He was a handsome man with fine features. He had very little schooling because he went to work in the stables before he was 10 or 12. That was why so many of the early jockeys were black. They knew the horses and cared for them.'' With little formal education, Winkfield grew into a cultured man who loved fine music and fine food and spoke six languages _ Russian, German, French, Italian, Polish and Spanish. He was a celebrity in Europe, where it was rare to see a black man in the early 1900s. ``He told me that strangers would walk up to him,'' said Lydia, ``and touch his skin to see if the color came off. He was not offended. They were gentle and curious but always polite.'' Jimmy visited the United States four or five times, the last in 1961, when he came home for medical care. His trip coincided with the Kentucky Derby, and when the turf writers learned he was in town, they held a dinner in his honor. The hotel, however, would not allow him to enter through the front door. He was too proud to be bitter, and he became the patriarch of a remarkable family. Among his grandchildren, including Lydia's brother and sister and her three cousins, Liliane's daughters, there are professionals, two doctors, an artist and a veterinarian. That would be Amie Casey, the youngest. Her specialty is horses. ``Aunt Liliane and two of my cousins will be at Churchill Downs Saturday,'' said Lydia. ``I will be in front of my television set, eating strawberries and cream.'' 
