Timothy Wayne Borders either snapped in a rage of passion or carefully calculated the slaying of his former girlfriend's new love, lawyers argued in Borders' capital murder trial this week. Jurors began deliberating Borders' case Thursday morning. Borders, 39, is accused of fatally shooting James L. Henry, 50, of Fort Worth, and then kidnapping former girlfriend Frankie Johnson. During the two-day trial, Johnson, 47, testified that Borders, whom she had dated for several years, broke into her south Fort Worth home April 8 while she and Henry were asleep. After shooting Henry, Borders forced Johnson to accompany him to his apartment, eventually releasing her unharmed near her sister's home in Forest Hill. Defense attorney Mike Heiskell asked jurors to convict Borders of the lesser charge of felony murder, saying Borders did not enter Johnson's residence with intent to kill Henry. His mind was ``warped'' from the breakup, Heiskell said. ``This is a tragic case where you will see that love blinded Timothy Borders to a degree where he became impassioned, he became enraged, and he snapped.'' But prosecutors Sean Colston and Miles Brissette told jurors that Border killed Henry ``in cold blood.'' The defense rested Thursday morning without calling any witnesses. Visiting Judge David White denied Heiskell's motion to acquit Borders on the basis of his state of mind. During trial, Johnson, a first- and second-grade teacher in Fort Worth schools, testified that she and Borders dated on and off for about five years before she broke up with him in February 2001. They had begun dating while Borders was separated from his second wife. Johnson and Henry had been dating about two months when he was killed in April, Johnson testified. Heiskell told jurors that Borders became suicidal and lost weight after he and Johnson broke up. The couple had once lived together and discussed getting married, he said. (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL ADD FOLLOWS) Before Henry was shot, police had twice responded to calls from Johnson's residence at 7044 Cleveland Court, Fort Worth Police Officer Pat Fritz testified. On March 17, 2001, Borders and Henry argued, and Johnson was pushed into a wall when she tried to step between the men. Fritz filed an emergency protective order on Johnson's behalf against Borders. Hours before the April 8 shooting, Fritz testified, he again was called to Johnson's home. He was told that Borders had been there in violation of the protective order. Later that night, Borders returned. In a taped confession to police that was played for jurors, Borders said he became upset when he peered through a window and saw Henry on the couch watching the TV Borders had bought for Johnson. Borders told police he walked to the Polo Club Apartments where he had left his car, and got out a gun and wire clippers. He returned to Johnson's home, he said, where he cut the phone lines. The apartments are about a mile from Johnson's house. It was a slight ``quirk, an illness that caused (Borders) to lose self control,'' Heiskell said. ``That quirk took over. He did a terrible thing.'' Johnson and Henry were in bed asleep about midnight when Borders returned. Johnson testifed that she was awakened by a loud blast and thought her home was being bombed. It was Borders kicking down the back door. Henry grabbed Johnson's .25-caliber semiautomatic gun. Johnson said she reached for the phone, but then heard something that sounded like rocks hitting her window. The two men were shooting at each other in the dimly lit hallway. Henry was shot four times, including once in the back of the neck at close range, Deputy Medical Examiner Mark Krouse testified. Borders was shot once in the pelvic area. ``I was standing by the door holding the phone in my hand and Timothy came from around the corner,'' Johnson testified. ``He said, `You're next.' At that point, I realized there must have been gunfire in the hall.'' Johnson, who was wearing a T-shirt and underwear, was led past Henry's body and out of the home. As the two walked the mile back to Borders' car, Johnson pleaded with Borders to call 911 and get help for Henry, she said. While driving to his White Settlement apartment, Borders stopped at a pay phone and told a 911 dispatcher he had shot Henry. Borders drove to his apartment, where he tended his wounds. Later, he dropped Johnson off near her sister's home in Forest Hill. He surrendered later that day. During cross-examination, Johnson told Heiskell she believed that Borders snapped. A conviction on the capital murder charge will mean automatic life in prison because prosecutors decided not to seek the death penalty. Borders would be eligible for parole in 40 years. (Visit the Star-Telegram's online services on the World Wide Web: www.star-telegram.com) nn 
