Anaheim Angels general manager Bill Stoneman trusted the judgment of one of his scouts in August of 2000 when the scout suggested the club claim infielder David Eckstein off waivers from the Boston Red Sox. Eckstein has become a consistent major-leaguer in his second season as the Angels' starting shortstop. But two grand slams in two days? ``What he did the last couple of days? No, I didn't expect that,'' Stoneman said. ``Power-hitting guys go 1 for 7 with a grand slam usually, not middle infielders.'' Especially not middle infielders who need to stand on their tip-toes to reach 5-foot-7. He became only the 21st player in major-league history to hit grand slams in consecutive days. And probably the most unlikely to do it. Eckstein said he had never hit a grand slam in his life before Saturday, when he hit one off Toronto reliever Pedro Borbon. Borbon was on the mound again Sunday for Eckstein's game-winner in the 14th inning. ``The closest I came was in the summer league,'' Eckstein said. ``There was this wire that ran over the fence and I hit the wire. They said the wire was in play, and the ball came straight down. One of our guys got thrown out at the plate because he thought it was a home run.'' Eckstein's two homers this season are as many as Tim Salmon and more than Darin Erstad, Bengie Molina, Scott Spiezio and Brad Fullmer. But he isn't about to change his game of hitting the ball on the ground and to the opposite field. ``Eck's got a good grip on what his talents are,'' manager Mike Scioscia said. ``He got under the ball a little bit and drove it. That was a great mistake.'' Said Eckstein: ``It's definitely not my game. Especially in Sunday's game, I was 0 for 6 with four flyouts (before the grand slam).'' --On the lookout: With Benji Gil (ankle) and Shawn Wooten (thumb) recovering from injuries, the Angels continue to look for a right-handed bat. Wil Cordero, designated for assignment by the Indians April 22, was released by the club on Monday. He has been considered but is not necessarily the Angels' focus. ``When you're talking about right-handed bats, Wil's name comes up,'' Scioscia said. ``As far as our club, a right-handed bat would be a fit. But there are other guys to consider. ``You keep your ear to the ground and hope you don't get run over by something.'' Cordero hit .222 (4 for 18) with one RBI in six games for the Indians this season. --Wise choice: Pitcher Matt Wise joined the club Tuesday in place of reliever Donne Wall, who was placed on the disabled list with tightness in his right arm. Wise was 0-0 with a 1.13 ERA in three starts at Triple-A Salt Lake but had not pitched in 10 days because of a bout with food poisoning. Wise, listed at 6-4, 197 pounds, said he lost 10 pounds during the illness. His wife, Amy, seven weeks pregnant, also got food poisoning but has recovered. ``I was skinny before,'' Wise said. ``Now I'm withering away.'' 
