A former top aide of Slobodan Milosevic surrendered Thursday to the United Nations war crimes tribunal in The Hague, where he was immediately taken to the court's special prison complex. The aide, Nikola Sainovic, a former deputy prime minister of Yugoslavia, was indicted along with Milosevic on charges of war crimes committed in Kosovo in 1999. But the two men, who were closely linked during the pinnacle of their power, are not likely to see each other in prison, according to court lawyers. To avoid collusion, they will probably be kept apart. A second suspect, Momcilo Gruban, a Bosnian Serb, also turned himself in, arriving in the Netherlands on the same commercial flight as Sainovic. Gruban has been indicted on charges of committing atrocities at the notorious Omarska prison camp, where he was a shift commander in 1992. The two men are among 23 fugitives pressed to surrender since Parliament adopted a law requiring government cooperation with the tribunal three weeks ago. One key figure on that list, the former Yugoslav Army commander, Gen. Dragoljub Ojdanic, surrendered to the tribunal last week. He has pleaded not guilty to war crimes in Kosovo. Three others on the list have also said they will go to The Hague soon. The adoption of the cooperation law in April appears to be a direct result of heavy Western pressure. Western diplomats also want tribunal officials to be given access to secret police and army files. Officials in Belgrade said this week that investigators would be allowed to go through some of the secret files. Much of the impetus for these changes comes from the pro-Western prime minister, Zoran Djindjic. Djindjic said during a BBC television interview this week that the police in his country now had orders ``to arrest all the people indicted.'' But he insisted that he was unable to hand over one of the tribunal's most wanted fugitives, Gen. Ratko Mladic, a Bosnian Serb who has often been seen in Serbia. ``I don't know and I didn't know where Mladic is,'' Djindjic said. 
