With AOL Time Warner's investors as twitchy as a hamster's nose, the company is eager to revitalize its ``crown jewel'' by attracting high-speed subscribers to the AOL Internet service. Time Warner's treasure trove of news and entertainment properties _ including CNN, HBO, and even Warner Bros.-produced ``Friends'' _ would seemingly make it easy to offer must-see content. But analysts say AOL's high-speed service offers scarcely a clue that the corporate ties exist. ``I was looking at AOL's broadband service, and it was CBS News I was seeing instead of CNN. How dumb is that?'' asked Tom Wolzien, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. ``They've got a ton of assets they could be utilizing, but it seems the company lacks a strategy to leverage these assets,'' said Mark Kersey, a broadband industry analyst at ARS Inc., a market research firm. ``AOL is in danger of losing a lot of its dial-up subscribers to competing broadband providers unless they come up with some compelling content.'' Using Time Warner content to nourish high-speed AOL, which has nearly saturated the slower dial-up market with its 34 million subscribers, is just one major challenge facing the troubled company. Another is convincing cable operators besides Time Warner Cable to roll out the service. Indeed, the world's largest media company must overcome these two key hurdles if it hopes to reel in the revenue and shoot its stock price skyward again. That price continued to hover below $20 last week, a three-year low. AOL Time Warner officials say the analysts have it wrong about the content, but acknowledge they have failed to publicize what's available. They say all sorts of exclusive content is available to high-speed subscribers, including updates from sports and entertainment personalities such as Bob Costas and Leeza Gibbons and a photo shoot of stars featured in ``Teen People'' magazine's ``25 Hottest Stars Under 25.'' Even a CNN headline service is offered in addition to CBS News, said Lisa Hook, president of AOL Broadband. ``What we need to do is a better job of telling the world what we have to offer,'' said Hook. ``We bring members not just our brands, but all brands that we feel will benefit our members.'' Joe Laszlo, a senior analyst at Jupiter Media Metrix, said the only broadband venture that shows promise from a content perspective is BellSouth Corp.'s deal with Walt Disney Internet Group to provide video and audio from ABC.com, ABCNews.com, and Disney.com. ``This is an interesting example of a media company willing to partner with a provider to try and provide a compelling experience,'' Laszlo said. Some analysts question the very strategy of trying to win the broadband war with content. When America Online bought Time Warner last year, it was the idea of bringing high-speed Internet services to AOL's ocean of dial-up users that was so fancied by investors. Co-Chief Operating Officer Robert Pittman, recently tapped to take over the online division, repeatedly promised to use broadband to pipe Time Warner's vast stable of media properties to Web users everywhere. Broadband _ which is 10 to 50 times faster than dial-up phone-line access _ makes it easier for consumers to download music and video off the Internet. AOL Time Warner was banking on the marketing of advanced digital services to boost monthly subscriber bills to $159 or more. But it seems consumers care less about entertainment than pure utility. In a recent survey by Jupiter Media Metrix, 59 percent of dial-up users planning to switch to broadband were motivated by the ``always on'' connection. And consumers can get that from dozens of Internet service providers. ``If some company offers (an) always-on connection at a cost slightly above what you're paying AOL for a narrowband connection, then that company can sign up a lot of narrowband customers,'' said Kavir Dhar, a media analyst at Jefferies &AMP; Co. Laszlo said it appears that Atlanta-based EarthLink Inc. is doing a better job of transferring its dial-up subscribers to broadband by downplaying content and relying on its reputation of providing strong customer support. Kurt Rahn, a spokesman for EarthLink, greed that ``the difference between us and AOL'' is that his company views broadband as more of a tool than an entertainment medium. Hook, the AOL Broadband president, said this argument also fails to give her company the credit it's due. Consumers buy AOL in the narrowband space because AOL excels at ``communications, community and convenience applications,'' she said, and these applications ``have better ease of use in a broadband market.'' ``If you're interested in a high-speed experience, the best experience is AOL's,'' Hook said. AOL, however, is having difficulty giving many potential customers a chance to reach that conclusion. EarthLink struck a deal this year with AT&AMP;T Broadband, the nation's largest cable company, that gave it access to 14 million more cable homes. Although AOL Time Warner owns Time Warner Cable, the nation's second-largest cable company with 12 million subscribers, it has no such deal with AT&AMP;T Broadband, which plans to merge with Comcast Corp. But Richard Parsons, who will take over as the company's chief executive on May 16, said Thursday that the company plans ``breakthrough'' deals to get AOL's Internet service on other cable systems in the next several months, Reuters reported. AOL Time Warner was forced as a condition of its merger, which closed in early 2001, to open Time Warner's cable lines to high-speed Internet providers besides AOL. So it reached deals to carry several ISPs, including EarthLink. But AOL has no assurances it can strike similar ``carriage'' deals with other cable companies. In general, cable companies aren't all that eager to negotiate a deal with AOL, fearing its capability to deliver video and thus steal customers from their core television audiences. Meanwhile, whatever broadband strategy AOL pushes, it had better push it fast. A survey by Jupiter Media Metrix shows that more than 24 percent of dial-up consumers are considering signing up for a broadband service within the next 12 months. ``People still aren't sure what they can do with broadband, and they won't be sure until they're shown,'' Sanford C. Bernstein's Wolzien said. ``The development of compelling content needs to be done and done now.'' Shelley Emling's e-mail address is semling(at)coxnews.com ENDIT Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
