The spotlight was on Roman Coppola when the clan gathered to celebrate the screening of ``CQ'' at the San Francisco International Film Festival on Saturday, and no one mentioned that a major event was looming for the family patriarch, too. But in a few days, on May 7, the Film Society of Lincoln Center will hold a gala tribute to Francis Ford Coppola at Avery Fisher Hall, followed by dinner at Tavern on the Green. Tickets to the gala and dinner are $900; 3,000 people are expected to attend. Previous tributes have honored Jane Fonda (last year), Martin Scorsese,Federico Fellini, Sean Connery and Audrey Hepburn. ``Godfather'' team members James Caan and Al Pacino will attend, as well as Coppola's wife, his young 'uns and his sister, Talia Shire. P.S. ``Good Morning America'' broadcasts Thursday from the Coppola Winery in Rutherford, which means everyone has to be up and ready by 4 a.m. our time. Some lucky family members will avoid the alarm clock because they're already in New York; their segments with Elizabeth Vargas were taped weeks ago.  BEATTYWATCH: It's true that Warren Beatty didn't discuss politics at that exclusive Bulgari reception before his film festival tribute, but there was plenty of time for that before and after. Beatty and wifeAnnette Bening had lunch at Yank Sing on Friday with their old friend John Burton. And after the tribute, the three of them headed over to Chez Panisse for dinner with New York Times film criticElvis Mitchell (who'd interviewed Beatty onstage), Green Party presidential candidate Ralph Nader and his sister, Laura Nader. Burton told TIC Tuesday that he actually enjoyed the nettle soup (he sounded surprised) and that proprietor Alice Waters had joined them at table and whipped up some special souffles. The conversation? ``Just friends' bull_,'' said Burton, but Nader, not exactly the typical Hollywood idea-pitcher, had one suggestion for Beatty the filmmaker: He wanted him to make a movie about greed. Erich von Stroheim's already done it, said Burton, and it was eight hours long. Ten, said Mitchell. And then it was on to the desserts.   MORE ON THE `GMA' FRONT: Nancy Snyderman, the San Francisco surgeon who's a regular on ``Good Morning America'' and made a paid radio commercial for Tylenol, has been suspended by ABC News for a week, reports the New York Daily News. Snyderman apologized and had the commercial taken off the air a few weeks ago when it came to light. Her punishment was decided last week.   `FRASIER' FOREVER: San Francisco State University has named Peter Casey, co-creator and executive producer of ``Frasier,'' alumnus of the year. The school particularly notes that the seven-time Emmy winner ``has not forgotten his SFSU roots,'' makes regular financial contributions to the university and hosted an alumni event on the ``Frasier'' set. Fans can pay their respects by watching ``Frasier'' reruns twice a night on KRON.  GLIMPSES: Shannon McNally, who played the Fillmore last on Thursday night, re-fueled with Cosmos and catfish before the show at the Elite Cafe. And Sam Elliott's been dining at John's Grill, to the delight of goggle-eyed fans here for the convention of the International Reading Association. Meanwhile, theater-lover Jerry Oremland was amazed on Monday night when Olympia Dukakis, taking a busman's holiday from rehearsals of American Conservatory Theater's ``For the Pleasure of Seeing Her Again,'' was sitting next to him at the Encore Theatre Company's production of ``Io _ Princess of Argos!'' HOW TO GET AWAY WITH IT ``I have seen Bryan go into an unalterable silence at a dinner party, where he still manages to contribute simply by being there.'' - British man-about-town Nicky Haslam describing rock-'n'-roller Bryan Ferry _ gentlemen: don't try this at home _ in Tatler magazine. 
