I'm not sure I believe that Vinnie, the author of ``Vinnie's Giant Roller Coaster Period Chart &AMP; Journal Sticker Book'' (Chronicle Books, $15.95), is a guy. But who cares. His colorful, spiral-bound diary for the youthful menstruators among us is a cheerful celebration of Womanhood itself. Better than that, it's actually ``useful.'' Vinnie encourages his female pals to track their monthly periods by plotting stickers on a roller-coaster track (an ice cream cone denotes a particularly crampy day, for instance). The book includes tear-out ``Vinnie &AMP; I Were Thinking of You on Your Period'' postcards to send to friends, plus cramp remedies and the item that launched the Vinnie franchise: a Vinnie's tampon case. Use the journal accordingly and you'll be chanting the Vinnie motto aloud: ``I know my flow!'' _ Liz Stevens Sibling revelry Sibling authors Ursula Inga Kindred and Mirranda Guerin-Williams believe that just like gumbo, your life is what you make it. The Louisiana natives, who now live just outside of Fort Worth, Texas, have cooked up Sister Gumbo: Life, Sex and More Sex, a heaping mix of real-life stories about women who discuss (anonymously) everything from self-actualization and marriage to sex and affairs. Those who like it spicy won't mind the tell-it-like-it-is language and frank discussions on infidelity; those who like it mild should just stick with the included gumbo recipe. _ Felicia Pinkney WEDDINGS Dial R-S-V-P Newlywed Teresa Bell knows that wedding R.S.V.P.s can be a headache to keep track of, costly (think of all those miniature stamped envelopes), and a low priority for invitees with an aversion to mailboxes. So six months ago, Bell, a Fort Worth wedding consultant, created a phone-in R.S.V.P. service for brides and other party-throwers. Clients include Bell's office phone number on their invitations _ (817) 236-7707 _ and Bell provides clients with weekly guest updates. Most of the brides who have used the service have opted to include R.S.V.P. cards with their invitations as well, though perhaps that will change in the future. And some have chosen to have Bell customize their voice mailbox, noting where the couple is registered, for instance. Bell also has plans to expand the business to e-mail R.S.V.P.s. _ Liz Stevens (Visit the Star-Telegram's online services on the World Wide Web: www.star-telegram.com) nn 
