Five months ago, Kim Dryer introduced her Sequin fashion jewelry collection to the Palm Beach market at her first Saks Fifth Avenue trunk show on the island. ``We had a great response, so we're coming back and expect to continue to do so for years to come,'' said Dryer, who has been a frequent island caller for several years, visiting her in-laws, longtime Palm Beach residents Nancy and Joseph Dryer. ``We wanted to bring Kim back, because her jewelry is so distinct and different from the other collections we carry,'' said Rene Gallardo, general manager of Saks' Palm Beach branch. The jewelry designer splits her time between homes in London and New York City. Dryer has been designing jewelry for 20 years. Before she started Sequin with partners three years ago, she worked as the designer and product development manager for a large jewelry firm that produces designer-label jewelry collections, working with such names as Kenneth Cole and Donna Karan. ``I saw that there was room for something different,'' she said. ``We started Sequin to cater to upper-level stores, like Saks and Henri Bendel, and to bring an exciting twist to the costume jewelry world. ``We're known for using interesting materials with a lot of antique details and vintage inspirations gleaned from shopping the antique markets in Europe. It's fashion jewelry with a different angle,'' she said. ``The collection is trend-driven, changing every season.'' While the vintage phenomenon has influenced fine jewelry design in Dryer's estimation, it has not had much impact in the fashion and costume jewelry realm, she said. ``That's really our niche,'' Dryer said. ``We use the best-quality elements, but create rings, bracelets, necklaces and brooches that are affordable,'' Dryer said. ``There is the misconception that if something is not expensive, it cannot be good quality, which we directly counter.'' Sequin jewelry ranges from $50 for a pair of earrings or a simple bracelet to $400 for multistrand necklaces featuring semiprecious stones. For the current season, the collection features several ethnic-style pieces, featuring African and Asian beads. ``The trend is toward `naturals' right now,'' Dryer said, referring to pieces featuring wood, seashells, faux tortoiseshell, seeds and other less shiny, more organic elements. ``We are also using lots of sterling silver and plated metals with semiprecious beads, Venetian and Czechoslovakian glass beads and freshwater pearls.'' The designer expects that new pieces, featuring turquoise beads and seashells which are inspired by costume jewelry from the 1950s and 1960s, will be popular with island customers. Robert Janjigian writes for the Palm Beach Daily News. E-mail: rjanjigian(at)pbdailynews.com Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
