Only days before the November 2000 Bush-Gore presidential election, visitors to George Washington's Mount Vernon estate were quietly enveloped in this nation's history. All of us that day surely felt the importance of Mount Vernon and the special man most responsible for establishing this nation and the world's longest-running democracy. When strolling sun-dappled paths, wandering through well-kept gardens or inspecting the estate's farm animals, we better understood the appeal Mount Vernon had on its owner and how the man who shaped the nation was shaped by his home overlooking the Potomac River. ``I can truly say I had rather be at home at Mount Vernon with a friend or two about me than to be attended at the seat of the government by the officers of State and the representatives of every power in Europe,'' Washington once wrote. Standing solemnly before the tombs of George and Martha Washington, I felt that I understood the feelings of the man who refused to even consider offers to become king of the new nation he founded along with other patriots. Evidently I didn't understand as much as I thought. The Mount Vernon Ladies Association, which has run the estate with dignified competence for more than a century, is raising money to turn the Founding Father's cherished home into something between Dolly Parton's Dollywood and Steven Spielberg's ``Raiders of the Lost Ark.'' According to Jonathan Yardley's April 29 Washington Post article, the Mount Vernon Ladies are raising money to construct a 50,000-square-foot center on the estate that will use state-of-the-art technology to turn the Father of the Nation into a whiz-bang, digitized cyber hero. The reason for this, according to Yardley, is falloff in attendance at Mount Vernon following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and the ignorance of a generation or more of Americans on matters relating to their nation's history. The tourism downturn following Sept. 11 is temporary. Ignorance of American history and the ``Father of His Country'' appears to be a permanent legacy of school systems more concerned with self-esteem than with learning. The Mount Vernon Ladies, who have no trouble reading, see the writing on the wall. To younger Americans, Washington and his life have no entertainment value. He's just another old, dead white guy. Nothing to compare to Indiana Jones. The executive director of Mount Vernon, Jim Rees, told the Washington Post that he actually hopes that a fast-paced Spielberg film in the new Mount Vernon center will provide enough action-packed adventure to be as exciting as Spielberg's Indiana Jones character. The people in charge of Mount Vernon and Washington's historical legacy are doing what they think is necessary to educate younger Americans about Washington. They plan to launch an $85 million public awareness campaign to ``restore the standing of the first president.'' ``While scholars continue to acknowledge that George Washington's character and leadership were among the best the nation has ever known, many contemporary Americans, unlike previous generations, have lost touch with the real Washington,'' Rees said in a press release. By using a Spielberg film, computer imaging, lifelike holograms, surround-sound programs, immersion videos, illusionist lighting effects and a lot more, the Mount Vernon Ladies hope to educate younger Americans to the fact that Washington was, in fact, totally awesome. Something's not right here. I have the feeling that the lion's share of the blame for this should be placed on the nation's schools, not the regrettable decision of the Mount Vernon Ladies Association. Rowland Nethaway is senior editor of the Waco (Texas) Tribune-Herald. E-mail: : RNethaway (at)wacotrib.com Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
