Most days, the Cheverton subdivision resembled the American dream, with its multicultural mix of neighbors, driveway basketball courts and posted speed limits of 22 mph. Thursdays, though, were different. As the sun set, Middle Eastern men filed into the home of Mohammad Youssef Hammoud on Donnefield Drive. Hammoud told them of being ``well connected to Hezbollah leaders in Lebanon,'' according to an informant. He beseeched his guests to give money to Hezbollah, which the United States considers a terrorist organization. To inspire his guests, he played speeches of the late Iranian cleric Ayatollah Khomeini and showed videos, including one with a crowd chanting, ``Death to America, Death to Israel.'' On May 20, Hammoud will be the first person tried in the United States under a 1996 law that prohibits support of known terrorist organizations. U.S. officials believe the case involves serious national security issues. The U.S. government, which considers Hammoud the leader of ``Charlotte's Hezbollah cell,'' reindicted him last month on a slew of felony charges. A new and damning allegation was added to the list: providing cash and military-style equipment to Hezbollah. `Very significant' case With the hunt for terrorist groups taking on added urgency after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, the trial could serve as a blueprint for the war against suspected terrorist groups operating on U.S. turf. ``This is a very significant prosecution in terms of the U.S. government's efforts to combat terrorism,'' U.S. Attorney Bob Conrad, whose office is handling the Hammoud case, said recently. ``The attorney general has given a directive to U.S. attorneys to make anti-terrorism their `first and overriding priority.' That's not hysteria. That's just sound public policy.'' Defense attorneys counter that the U.S. government overstepped its constitutional bounds to build a sensationalized case. It's not illegal, they contend, to provide assistance to Hezbollah, which many describe as an Islamic political and religious group. A straightforward cigarette-smuggling case, lawyers say, has been transformed into a witch hunt targeting Middle Easterners as terrorists. ``It will be incredibly difficult, if not impossible, to get a fair trial, particularly in this time in American history when we are in a war on terrorism,'' said Deke Falls, the attorney for Hammoud who will fight every charge. ``But you have to hold out hope that people can set aside the events of September 11 and come to the jury box with as clean a slate as possible.'' The upcoming trial promises drama worthy of a John le Carre thriller: Canadian spies, ``sleeper'' agents, confidential informants, classified documents, wiretapped conversations. Smuggling charges It all came to light in July 2000 when Hammoud, two brothers and 15 others were arrested and charged with skirting immigration laws, cigarette smuggling and money laundering. But prosecutors allege the illegal activities began years earlier. Hammoud, a native of Lebanon, left Venezuela for Michigan in 1992. His visa up, Hammoud was ordered out of the United States by September 1996. A year later, he married Angela Tsioumas, a U.S. citizen, and became a ``lawful, permanent resident.'' The couple moved to Charlotte. Hammoud, now 28, was reunited with brother Chawki Youssef Hammoud who, after marrying Jessica Yolanda Fortune in 1994, was also granted permanent residency. Fortune was convicted last October of conspiracy to violate immigration laws. Her marriage, like that of Tsioumas to Hammoud, was a sham solely for the purpose of allowing the Lebanese men to remain in the United States, authorities say. Chawki Hammoud goes on trial with his brother later this month. The Hammouds also hooked up in Charlotte with Said Mohamad Harb, a childhood friend from Lebanon. In a closed hearing in February, Harb pleaded guilty to conspiring to smuggle cigarettes, arrange sham marriages, launder money and other felonies. He also admitted conspiring to provide material support to Hezbollah. Harb, 31, is expected to testify on Hammoud's alleged role in funneling money and materiel to Hezbollah. In return, the U.S. government agreed to help Harb's parents, brothers and sisters leave Lebanon. The family was expected to arrive here last month, on the day Harb's plea deal was made public. Harb attended the meetings at Hammoud's home where the talk inevitably turned to crime, the feds say. Aid banned in 1997 In early 1995, a sheriff's deputy in Iredell County, a quick ride north of Charlotte, became curious as cars with out-of-state plates pulled up to JR Tobacco and loaded up on wholesale cigarettes. Over the next four years, Hammoud, Chawki Hammoud, Harb, Tsioumas and others ran hundreds of thousands of dollars' worth of low-tax cigarettes to high-tax Michigan, according to indictments. Each trip netted as much as $4,000. Tsioumas told an FBI informant in February 1999 that she and Hammoud were ``looking for a way to legitimize their money,'' according to a July 2000 affidavit. They eventually secured a $1.6 million bank loan for a gas station. Hammoud and two others also bought Cedarland Grocery and Restaurant in Charlotte for $120,000. The profits supported other interests too, the feds say. Harb traveled to Lebanon in September 1999 and delivered $3,500 from Hammoud to a Hezbollah military commander, according to the indictment. That allegation will play a big role in the anti-terrorism case against Hammoud. In 1997, Secretary of State Madeleine Albright designated Hezbollah a ``foreign terrorist organization'' making it illegal for anyone in the United States to assist Hezbollah. During the 1980s and '90s, the so-called Party of God waged guerrilla war against Israeli forces occupying southern Lebanon. Hezbollah was tied to the bombings of the U.S. Embassy annex and a U.S. Marine barracks in Beirut, Lebanon, in 1983, which killed hundreds of Americans. It has also been linked to Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida network. It was reported last month that Hezbollah is providing military expertise to Palestinian fighters in the Gaza Strip. Hezbollah is also a Lebanese political party and social welfare organization. It holds six seats in the Lebanese Parliament. It runs schools, operates clinics and builds roads, primarily in southern Lebanon. But Hezbollah remains a terrorist organization to the U.S. government. Harb traveled twice to Canada in 1999 to meet with Mohamad Hassan Dbouk, a ``purchasing agent'' for Hezbollah, according to the FBI. The Canadian Security Intelligence Service provided information ``that establishes the involvement . . . of Said M. Harb and others in the coordinated international procurement of technical equipment for Hizballah in Lebanon,'' the 115-page affidavit reads. According to the FBI, Harb, Dbouk and other men procured some or all of the following: night vision goggles; cameras and scopes; surveying equipment; global positioning systems; mine and metal detection equipment; video equipment; advanced aircraft analysis and design software; laptop computers; stun guns; radios; mining, drilling and blasting equipment; radars; ultrasonic dog repellers; laser range finders. Involvement denied That wasn't all. On May 26, Dbouk phoned Harb and asked about obtaining life insurance for Hezbollah operatives, the feds say. Dbouk, who remains a fugitive, supposedly inquired about policies which would ``cover the risk of death caused by bullets'' for 30 men. ``Mr. Hammoud categorically denies that he was ever a member of a Charlotte Hezbollah cell, that he was ever a member of a terrorist cell, and that he was ever the ringleader of any criminal activity,'' said Falls, Hammoud's attorney. None of the defendants has been charged with committing acts of violence. Hezbollah has reportedly denied any links to the suspects. Prosecutors, though, dismiss Hezbollah's claims and vow that their anti-terrorism fervor, post-Sept. 11, will continue. ``This case does take on heightened importance,'' Conrad, the U.S. attorney, said. ``We anticipate the Department of Justice's efforts against terrorism (that) resulted in this type of indictment will most likely be seen elsewhere. My belief is that this activity is not peculiar to Charlotte.'' Dan Chapman writes for The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. E-mail: dchapman(at)ajc.com Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
