Bob Baffert wasn't satisfied to train a long shot for Saturday's Kentucky Derby. So he entered two. Baffert, who already had The Thoroughbred Corp.'s War Emblem in the race, decided Wednesday morning to enter Mike Pegram's Danthebluegrassman as well. The move came as a surprise to everybody else -- an unpleasant surprise for the owners of Windward Passage, the colt displaced from the race by Danthebluegrassman. ``I'm not making any comment,'' said Barry Irwin, president of Team Valor, the partnership that believed, until 15 minutes before the start of the late-afternoon post-position draw ceremony, that Windward Passage had qualified for the 20-horse field with the 20th-highest earnings in graded-stakes races. ``It's very disappointing,'' said Steve Asmussen, trainer of Windward Passage. ``Everybody congratulated us for getting in the race all day. We'll have to settle down and think about where we're going to run next.'' Danthebluegrassman, eighth and last in the Santa Anita Derby in his latest race, is one of four horses at 50-1, the longest price on the Kentucky Derby morning line. War Emblem is 20-1. Baffert said he had been considering giving Danthebluegrassman a chance in the Derby all along but kept quiet about it because ``I didn't want to be bugged (by reporters).'' The trainer said he decided to enter the colt after a 6-furlong workout in 1:11 4/5 workout at Churchill Downs on Tuesday. Baffert won Kentucky Derbies with Silver Charm in 1997 and Real Quiet in 1998. Pegram owned Real Quiet. Danthebluegrassman was 18th on the earnings list with $108,750 in graded stakes. Windward Passage slipped to 21st with $100,000. Twenty-four horses were entered in the Derby. Also excluded by the 20-horse cut-off were USS Tinosa, fifth in the Santa Anita Derby, and Sunday Break, third in the Wood Memorial. --Lining up: Harlan's Holiday was made the 9-2 morning-line favorite after landing post 14. That is believed to be the highest line for a favorite in Derby history. Santa Anita Derby winner Came Home (post 15) and Wood winner Buddha (10) were made the 5-1 co-second choices by Churchill Downs handicapper Mike Battaglia. Buddha trainer Jim Bond drew the first choice in the post-position ``draft.'' Bond said he picked post 10 because ``it's a post a lot of horses have won from through history.'' With nine victories, that post is tied for fourth with post 2, behind Nos. 1 (12), 4 (10) and 5 (10). Starting from post 1 will be 2-year-old champion Johannesburg. --Riders up: Gary Stevens, looking for his fourth Kentucky Derby victory, will ride Johannesburg, and Jerry Bailey, seeking his third, will ride Castle Gandolfo, Irish trainer Aidan O'Brien announced Wednesday. The Hall of Fame jockeys' assignments had been up in the air. Johannesburg had needed a new rider since Friday, when Irish champion Michael Kinane failed to secure a stay of a suspension in England that runs through Derby day. ``It was the news I wanted to hear,'' said Stevens, whose first choice of mounts, Sunday Break, failed to qualify for the race based on his earnings in graded stakes races. Stevens is one of 10 Southern California-based jockeys in the 20-horse field. --Weather report: Rain returned to Louisville Wednesday evening, but dry weather is expected for the days that matter. Churchill Downs announced a forecast of sun and 68 degrees on Friday and partial clouds and 74 degrees on Derby day. --Filly out: Bella Bellucci won't run in Friday's Kentucky Oaks for 3-year-old fillies. The 3-1 second choice on the morning line was withdrawn Wednesday after blood tests indicated an illness, trainer Neil Drysdale said. Take Charge Lady is the 2-1 favorite on the Oaks morning line. --Bottom line: If all 20 entrants start the Derby, the race will have a $1,205,000 purse, breaking the 2000 record of $1,188,400. The winner will get $905,000. If there are scratches, both the total and winner's purse would drop by $15,000 per withdrawal. 
