The man at the center of Iran's latest, incoherent bid to improve its relations with the United States was in a roughly similar position 16 years ago. The results then were unfortunate. And the results of the present confused, backbiting process look like being no less futile. In 1986, when Iran was in the middle of its long war with Iraq, Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani's political enemies gleefully disclosed his secret plan to buy arms from America, Iraq's offstage protector. The plan was abandoned. But Rafsanjani got his revenge when the main whistle-blower was executed. Now, once again, Rafsanjani's opponents are accusing him, but in whispers this time, of communicating behind their backs with the enemy. Anti-Americanism used to be intrinsic to Iran's national ideology. This is no longer as true as it was. The feeling has grown, particularly since George Bush included the country in his ``axis of evil,'' that Iran can no longer afford simply to glower at the United States. Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran's supreme leader and the deciding voice on such crucial matters, has always been against direct talks. But he let it be known that he might no longer stand in the way of semiofficial contacts, so long as they did not constitute ``negotiations.'' The parliamentarians gathered round Iran's reform-minded president, Muhammad Khatami, decided to push more or less openly for better relations. But, in the middle of last month, rumors started to fly that officials from both countries had secretly met in Cyprus, or Geneva, or perhaps both. The reformists were furious at being left out: Deputies and like-minded newspapers demanded that ``transparency'' be the watchword in dealings with America. In private, some parliamentarians put it about that allies of Rafsanjani, his son among them, arranged and perhaps attended the meetings. Moreover, they say, these Rafsanjani men did so without the prior knowledge of Kamal Kharrazi, the foreign minister. Kharrazi may shortly be hauled before parliament. If he is, he will also be grilled on the mysterious sacking of his nephew, Sadeq Kharrazi, from his position as deputy foreign minister. This happened at the time when the rumor mills started grinding in earnest. Sadeq Kharrazi is said to have headed a team, set up by Khamenei, to look into the possible repercussions of starting talks with America. Yet, according to one account, he was sacked on the orders of Khamenei. Others say his uncle pushed him out. In the company of friends, Kharrazi does not deny that he attended one of the controversial meetings. Whoever sacked him, it seems likely that it was because he exceeded his brief. Clearly, parts of Iran's fractured political establishment are all too ready to sabotage the efforts of any other part to win the glory that might possibly emanate from opening a dialogue with America _ so long, that is, as Iran succeeds in enhancing its prestige in the process. Both reformists and conservatives are said to be alarmed by the suggestion that Rafsanjani was trying hard for the prize. Although his influence still weighs heavier than his official post as head of a mediating body, Rafsanjani is by no means the titan he was before and during his eight-year presidency that ended in 1997. He performed embarrassingly at the last parliamentary election, and his enemies are keen to prevent his rehabilitation. America, itself, did little to usher in friendlier times. Last month, the Senate passed a bill that seeks to make it harder for Iranian citizens, among others, to get American visas. The State Department has refused three requests from Iran's ambassador at the United Nations for permission to travel outside New York. And American customs officials recently subjected a respected Iranian filmmaker to a rather undignified search. In any event, the whole muddled, stop-and-start enterprise seemed to have crashed to a stop on May 1 when Khamenei ruled out any talks in a speech that slammed America in old-fashioned style. The supreme leader repeated his call for an oil embargo, praised Palestinian suicide bombers and said that negotiations were a rotten idea as America would use them to impose its demands. Given Iran's, and Rafsanjani's, way of doing things, this does not necessarily rule out secret contacts. But it makes them less likely. 
