The New York Times said in an editorial for Wednesday, May 1: To no one's surprise, Gen. Pervez Musharraf almost certainly won a rigged referendum in Pakistan Tuesday awarding him another five years as president. Even less surprising, the general's aides proclaimed the results a vote of confidence. But either out of indifference or protest, most Pakistanis declined to participate in an election that was preceded by curbs on dissent. The balloting has actually diminished Musharraf's stature and he must now take aggressive steps to restore democracy with a vigorously contested parliamentary election, due in October. Musharraf seized power in a military coup in 1999, ousting Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif. Since Sept. 11, he has won broad support for allying himself with the American battle against terrorism. He helped crush the Taliban in Afghanistan and has arrested many Islamic militants at home. In a recent sign of possible backpedaling, however, he has released most of the 2,000 people arrested earlier. There can be no room for easing up on terrorism or the promised return to democracy. The general made a grave mistake in scheduling the referendum in the first place. He compounded the error by banning organized rallies by political parties. The two main political parties are actually supportive of the crackdown on militants and terrorism. Now they have been alienated by Musharraf's tactics. As the Pakistani commentator Husain Haqqani put it recently, it is time for him to stop trying to be his nation's savior and become its leader. He should be working with the parties instead of trying to freeze them out of power. The next big test for Musharraf, politically speaking, is October's parliamentary elections. The two parties in the best position to win them are the Pakistan Muslim League of former Prime Minister Sharif, who accepted exile when he was threatened with prosecution after his ouster, and the Pakistan People's Party of former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto. At the very least, Musharraf needs to allow Bhutto's and Sharif's organizations to participate fully in the election and accept the results. He carried out the referendum to enhance his credibility on the world stage. Instead, he set in motion a test of his credibility when the elections get under way. 
