Sunrise comes to Churchill Downs like a voyeur, nosing by stealthy degrees over the green-shingled roofs of the ancient cinder-block barns along the backside of the track. It settles quietly in the tops of great oak trees to spy on the misty business below, slowly bringing up the lights on horse racing's greatest show while taking great care not to interrupt a morning routine that already is hours old. Thursday was my first visit to the place where Kentucky Derby magic is made. Never even saw the finish line. Glanced briefly at a long row of empty betting windows, as quiet as a graveyard and twice as greedy, but did not linger. Those are images best left for Derby Day, this Saturday, when all of America will tune in for two minutes of excitement and dream of being here to holler the winner home. Until then the real drama is played out beyond the public view, behind the course itself, inside and around the same simple stalls where Triple Crown legends like Secretariat and Citation and Affirmed once stood gnawing on hay and waiting for some little man to climb aboard and point them toward the enormous 1 1/4-mile Derby course. Difficult to think of these great champions as animals, not when you've been to their backyard some morning and seen the way they're babied. Did you know that they get washed down after their workouts just like a sports car, with buckets of soap and water and a groom assigned to gently sponge the grime away? Did you know, too, that there are trainers here as green as Kentucky bluegrass, experiencing right along with me their first delirious wave of Derby fever? Over there, standing along the backstretch in jeans and a cowboy hat to watch his horse gallop past, stands Wilson Brown, who because of his Churchill Downs inexperience stumbled into a formal midweek Derby party dressed exactly this same way. Brown is a hardheaded Oklahoman born in the hardpan town of Cement. He's the trainer of It'sallinthechase, a colt that has raced more and won less than any other entry in the 20-horse Derby field. Some owners can't wait to enter a Kentucky Derby, however, seeking a lottery shot of luck to crown their careers, and will cheerily do so even if it means finishing last. ``He's eating everything in sight and sleeping hard,'' Brown said of his horse, and not Minnesota-based owner Darwin Olson. ``We've got to go in there to his stall every morning and wake him up.'' You'd think the hordes of Derby Week reporters roaming between the barns would do the trick. For every veteran known on sight by big-time trainers like D. Wayne Lukas and Bob Baffert, there are three hit-and-run hacks standing around arguing about last night's baseball games or howling at the misfortune of stepping in something foul. Quite an accommodating lot, these horse people, for inviting the swine into their sanctuary. Not that some don't have their doubts, of course. H. James Bond, who playfully OK'd the stitching of the numbers ``007'' on the back of his cap, selected a barn as far from the celebrity trainers as possible to house Buddha, his 5-1 shot. Bond has been schooling horses for 28 years, having gained his trainer's license at 16, but this is his first Kentucky Derby and he wants no distractions. On Saturday, with Churchill Downs career wins leader Pat Day in his saddle and 150,000 screaming fans on his back, Buddha will be fully in the spotlight. For now he remains a gray ghost, hidden from prying eyes by a green canvas shade stretched across the shed row and a pair of signs reading ``Thanks for respecting my privacy - Buddha.'' Either cats can't read or they simply don't care to comply, for at least half a dozen of them wandered freely around the backside Thursday morning. My impression is they belong to no one and everyone, common strays that wandered over from the blue-collar neighborhoods that tightly pinch the 128-year-old track and decided to stay, believing that Churchill Downs should be a feline preserve as well as equine. Given the catastrophic fright that one mouse could give a stable of skittish thoroughbreds, perhaps they are the second most welcome creatures here, outpointing the tour groups of investors with their limousines idling at the VIP gate and their cell phones warbling at every turn of the market. Not that there's anything wrong with being rich. It's just that the backside is a place built on the backbone of hard, physical labor. There are mountains of hay to be dumped into wheelbarrows and pushed from barn to barn, tons of equipment to be polished and repaired, scores of hooves to be shod and coats to be brushed. Not just on Derby Day, but every day, all year long, even when the temperamental 3-year-old's upon whom so many fortunes depend are being trucked cross-country or flown across the ocean. There, just ahead, is an exercise rider who probably spends more time in the saddle by dawn than Roy Rogers ever did in an entire day of television play-acting. Her name is Monnie Evans and this is her 17th year working Kentucky horsetracks. A tangle of crumpled releases in my hand catches her eye, for somewhere in there is a listing of the horses officially entered in the Kentucky Derby as of Wednesday's post-position draw. That's information Evans needs and might have gotten in the morning paper if only the alarm hadn't gone off at 3:30 a.m., beginning immediately the daily routine with an soul-stirring round of aspirin and coffee. Churchill Downs was her second stop Thursday, having walked and trotted another stable of horses at a nearby farm, all in the predawn gloom. ``I hope I make it through this week,'' Evans says. ``I'm going to two Derby parties tonight, Pat Day's and then a fund-raiser for Randy Romero, and then it's 3:30 in the morning all over again.'' Romero is a former jockey who rode nine times in the Kentucky Derby but is forced into retirement, waiting on the liver and kidney transplants his body requires. Perhaps the Churchill Downs chaplain will pray for him today over the loudspeakers on the backside. That is how he began the morning Thursday, quoting scripture from the book of II Chronicles in a reminder that for all its bourbon and gambling and Derby Week revelry, Kentucky remains a major notch in America's Bible belt. The incongruities of the world's greatest horse race are not lost on Prince Ahmed Salman, a member of Saudi Arabia's royal family, who stables his horses at Santa Anita Park in California and spent a reported $1 million to buy Derby entrant War Emblem. Baffert, the trainer of back-to-back Derby winners in 1997 and 1998, also received a princely sum to take War Emblem into his stable and, presumably, all the way to the winner's circle. Offended by this talk of royal decree on the eve of so patriotic an American sporting holiday? Well, then, you'll be please to know that King George was nowhere to be seen on the backside Thursday. Representing George Steinbrenner instead was a straight-talking South Dakota native named Bill Mott who is a member of horse racing's Hall of Fame and is training the Boss' Ocala-bred entry, Blue Burner, by his own instincts. ``He's demanding,'' Mott said of Steinbrenner, who has yet to win a Kentucky Derby in three tries. ``He wants to win. There's no such thing as a race that's not important to him. No matter how insignificant you might think a particular race is, don't think he'll take it for granted.'' With that in mind, Mott excuses himself and trots a pony onto the track as heavy rain turns the dirt to mud. All those who are obsessed with the Kentucky Derby alone run for cover, but the people who work here on the backside must set up other horses for other races scheduled to be run today, like the Kentucky Oaks, and on Saturday, too. Look for them each morning, but not bright and early like the sun. That's too late. Dark and earlier makes a Kentucky Derby winner, even as the tinkle of champagne toasts causes the high-rollers in the party tents to confuse one day with the next. Dave George writes for The Palm Beach Post. Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
