You've probably heard that adding fiber to your diet is good for the body. Incorporating fiber into your home decor can be good for the soul. The ancient look of basket weave is showing up in subtle and surprising places. Woven texture can be found in the relief and flat patterns of ceramic tile and stone, and trim for wood cabinets. Latticework adorns wrought iron and other metals in furniture and accessories. ``You can get the basket weave feel in furniture, flooring and accessories and on walls and windows,'' says Madeline Krumenauer, project designer at the Expo Design Center in metro Atlanta. ``It can be subtle _ sometimes you don't realize it's there. It's a balanced blend of textured and smooth. It gives an old-world feel, a tropical feel.'' Truly woven designs include embellishments for pillows, bedding and elegant window treatments. Natural window shades, made by weaving wood and yarn into Roman-style shades, are back, unfurling updated styles and colors. In the kitchen, cabinetmakers are tucking woven storage bins in space typically occupied by drawers. Wicker and rattan pieces, such as baskets, containers, bookshelves and racks, hold towels and toiletries, plants, magazines and books, CDs, toys and collections. People are putting up grass-cloth wallcovering, adding decorative knobs and pulls in the kitchen and bath, and putting down flooring in fibers from sisal to sea grass. A SEASON FOR CHANGE The weave's prevalence and enduring appeal are just part of the texture movement in home design. Others are faux finishes and stucco, marbleizing and distressed looks. ``Texture is in and flat is out,'' Krumenauer says. One reason is the cooling effect the basket weave brings home in summer. It softens the sterile look of a modern kitchen with stainless steel appliances and granite counters. It can lend an international flavor that depicts motifs that are African, Asian, Native American, Celtic or French country. Items made of sisal, hemp, sea grass, water hyacinth, cane, jute and other natural fibers showcase an art form practiced for centuries by cultures all over the world. In addition to rugs and carpeting, floor tiles in ceramic and stone with the basket weave design are popular, said DeeDee Gordon, designer for Ann Sacks, a tile, stone and plumbing company based in Portland, Ore. ``It's a beautiful, natural look, like a woven sweater,'' Gordon said. The company, which has a showroom in Atlanta, started two years ago with a couple of basket weave designs in ceramic and stone. Now they're up to 11 styles, mostly in flat tiles, but there's also a relief design used primarily as trim. ``The response has been overwhelming,'' Gordon said. ``When it comes to permanent installations, people are nervous to use color. You want to bring in interest in another way. Texture's a way to do that.'' FEELING COZY Although primarily neutral in color, the earthy look of weave makes a warm and profound statement, designers say. It evokes comfort. Walking barefoot on natural fibers renders good feelings. ``The natural fibers are very pleasing to people,'' said Carole Newton, textiles product manager for Crate &AMP; Barrel. ``They're lightweight and strong. They appeal to the indoor/outdoor lifestyle that's popular now.'' Woven texture can also add an ambience that brings to mind British colonial design or homes of Charleston, Savannah and New Orleans. ``It's a look adapted to people's lifestyles. People are making their home the heart of everything,'' Krumenauer said. ``You can pull in antiques, your collections, to achieve an eclectic look.'' Discount stores carry a variety of items. Design centers and specialty showrooms offer custom pieces. Whatever your budget, keep a balance in mind when adding textural interest, Krumenauer advised. ``You don't want clutter and hodgepodge,'' she said. ``It's all in how you put it together. Sometimes less is better.'' Connie Green Freightman writes for The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. E-mail: cgfreightman(at)attbi.com Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
