The murder in Brazil last December of Sir Peter Blake, an ocean-racing skipper who had twice won the America's Cup, represented an earthquake in the world of sailing. The continuing tremors from that earthquake reverberate through the pages of Outside magazine this month. Author Peter Nichols examines persistent questions about whether Blake, a 53-year-old legend in his native New Zealand, contributed to his own death by grabbing a rifle and fighting back when six gun-wielding ``pirates'' boarded his 118-foot yacht, intent on robbing the crew of their watches and cameras. It's a tangled tale, skillfully reconstructed by Nichols, who spoke not just to Blake's crew members and passengers _ all but one of whom vehemently defend the skipper's actions _ but also conducted jailhouse interviews of the men accused in Blake's murder. The story acquires analytical heft because Nichols uses the murder as a vehicle to explore the broader question of danger at sea and whether sailors should arm themselves against pirates. Today's pirates are not the yo-ho-ho-and-a-bottle-of-rum buccaneers of yore; most often, as in Blake's murder, they are petty criminals from poverty-stricken towns who use fishing boats to reach yachts anchoring offshore. In Nichols's view, ``the blitheness, the unconscious ease, the sense of entitlement with which American, European, and Australian sailors will moor a quarter-million-dollar boat off a village in Asia, South America, or Africa and step cheerfully ashore to look for a beer only make it that much more remarkable that piracy is not a thousand times worse.''  -----  The neuroscientific sex Thinking about the human brain always makes this human's brain hurt. So much mysterious wiring, so many ways the wires can cross. Given those stakes, neuroscience is a field we'd all better pay attention to. Increasingly, the pioneers of neuroscience are women, at least at Harvard Medical School. In the May/June issue of Harvard Magazine, Patricia Thomas profiles four female researchers who are making important contributions to our understanding of the brain that may lead to breakthroughs in the treatment of Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and other neurodegenerative diseases: Carla J. Shatz, chair of the HMS neurobiology department; Anne Buckingham Young, chief of neurology at Massachusetts General Hospital; Junying Yuan, a professor of cell biology at HMS; and Li-Huei Tsai, an associate professor of pathology. Thomas's article is dense with scientific and medical detail, but she also brings in biographical touches that get at the inspirations behind these women who are devoting long hours each day to studying the diseases. Tsai, for instance, still remembers the day from her childhood when she got a firsthand lesson in the ravages of Alzheimer's. During their daily walk to a vegetable market outside Taipei, her grandmother suddenly had no idea where she was _ the first symptoms of her growing dementia. Now, years later, one of Tsai's laboratory discoveries is viewed as a potential treatment for the disease that afflicted her grandmother.  -----  Avoiding the big house A random glance at bookstore shelves suggests that fiction takes a back seat nowadays to nonfiction, if not in the hearts of readers, at least in the minds _ and wallets _ of publishers. One path towards a brighter future for fiction, M. J. Rose argues in the May/June issue of Poets &AMP; Writers magazine, is for novelists and short-story writers to wean themselves from a destructive dependence on major publishing houses. Many books by lesser-known authors perish of neglect, while even some writers who wangle big advances watch with dismay their books disappear, unpromoted, into an overcrowded marketplace. The alternative, in Rose's view? The growing number of small, independent publishers that limit the number of titles they carry but offer sustained marketing and promotional support to authors _ and also offer them a genuine sense of creative partnership on everything from the book design to the book tour. Rose contends that outfits such as Context Books, McSweeney's Books (founded by Dave Eggers, author of ``A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius''), and MacAdam/Cage are forging ``a new publishing model'' that offers writers an antidote to ``the big-house blues.'' Rose's idealism is appealing. But, as she notes, some smaller houses require a major trade-off: namely, doing away with the traditional author's advance in order to funnel that money toward publicizing the book. She quotes a couple of novelists who say they're OK with that, but I'm guessing there are a lot of writers who wouldn't be. I'm also skeptical that the co-op ethos Rose envisions would ever fully take root in a trade as individualistic as writing. Still, this is a substantive contribution to the dialogue about the place books should hold in our lives. 
