As summer approaches, Terry Forrest, a teacher from Westbury, N.Y., dreams about lounging on the sweeping porch of his spacious summer home overlooking Lake Placid, going for a bracing dip in the lake before breakfast and greeting the day's sunset with a refreshing gin-and-tonic. But during July, someone else will be occupying his favorite Adirondack chair. Forrest is the fourth-generation owner of his family's landmark camp, Humdinger Hill, but he is the first who must rent out the property to make ends meet. ``I rent out of necessity,'' he said. ``For three generations, my family spent the whole summer up there, but I can't do it. It drives me nuts to be hanging around Long Island knowing the lake is waiting for me and a stranger is in my house.'' Forrest is not alone. Like many baby boomers who bought, built or inherited second homes during the economy's expansion, he is faced with the choice of renting out _ or selling out _ his beloved getaway. From Memorial Day through Labor Day, many people will reluctantly hand over their keys to strangers _ and pray that their refuge is not damaged or destroyed. Real-estate brokers say that clients find themselves in this bind because they bought primary homes with cash and leveraged their second homes to the hilt with debt. ``These people want a special place to create those happy family memories, but they're just on the edge of being able to afford it,'' said Margie Papier, a rental manager at Merrill Thomas Realty, a Sotheby's affiliate in Lake Placid. ``Lately I'm seeing a lot of people doing rentals that never would have considered it before. They need to cover their taxes. But they're anxious about it.'' Between 1995 and 2000, ownership of second homes soared 27 percent, according to a survey by the National Association of Realtors. Most of the buyers acquired properties for their own enjoyment, not intending to use them as income-producing or investment properties. But overspending on purchases and renovations _ coupled with a downturn in the economy _ has made renting, even for just a few weeks each summer, a necessity. On Martha's Vineyard, Tim Dennis, president of Century 21 Island-Wide Realty, said his company had added a substantial number of new rental listings to its inventory this spring. He has also noticed second-home shoppers perusing _ however warily _ the rental market. ``More and more buyers are asking in advance what the house can be rented for,'' he said. ``Before, they didn't raise the question. It wasn't in their plans.'' With rates running as high as $50,000 a week in some areas, handing over the keys _ at least temporarily _ is an attractive prospect for cash-strapped owners. The biggest expense is leasing. Brokers charge owners a 15 to 30 percent commission, depending on location and season. These fees are negotiable and tend to slide as prices rise. Dennis said that while 20 percent is standard for his firm, a long-term lease on a high-end house _ like a two-month rental of a $30,000-a-week property _ might carry only a 10 or 15 percent fee. (BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) Forrest began renting his eight-bedroom house in 1998. Built in 1910, the property features water views, stone fireplaces, original woodwork and a prime location; it commands $7,500 a week during the peak months of July and August. Before renting for the first time, Forrest said, he spent several weeks ``sanitizing'' the house. ``I went through every drawer and closet,'' he said. ``In some ways, I depersonalized the house. I locked things up and I haven't bothered to put them back.'' He did keep one bedroom suite off-limits; that is where he takes refuge. ``It helps me and my wife retain our sense of privacy,'' Forrest said. ``It makes me feel like it's still my house, even if other people get to use it.'' (END OPTIONAL TRIM) Kevin McCarthy, a sales associate with Lee Real Estate on Nantucket, said off-limits ``owners' rooms'' _ rather than just owners' closets _ are a growing trend. ``The tenant probably won't appreciate a $20,000 desk, so you might as well put it away,'' he said. ``If you're furnishing with a rental in mind, you use Crate &AMP; Barrel.'' Some landlords disagree. Barbara and Carl DeSantis of Bolton Landing, N.Y., own two Adirondack homes that, when not being used by their five children and 11 grandchildren, are rented out. ``I think it's a mistake to lock everything up,'' DeSantis said. ``Stripping a house is the wrong way to go. You won't get the best return if you cut corners and make your home look like a boring condo.'' Instead, DeSantis did the opposite. She renovated her properties, adding rough-hewn stone fireplaces, hardwood floors and custom-designed carpeting. She filled the living rooms with oversized sofas and club chairs, and adorned the beds with Ralph Lauren linens and goose-down comforters. As a finishing touch, she mounted trophies from her husband's hunting trips, including moose, caribou and antelope heads. DeSantis estimates that renters are willing to pay a premium of 25 percent or more for her homes. Both houses are currently booked through 2003, and she steadfastly refuses to lower her rates. ``If we compromise our prices, we have problems with our renters,'' she said. Most of the problems that can arise have been minor, ranging from broken dishes to missing towels. While damage and theft are worrisome, the biggest concern to rural homeowners is fire, which can mean total devastation of a property if pumper trucks do not arrive in time. Brokers tell first-time landlords to put candles away, leave strict instructions for fireplace use and install fire extinguishers throughout the house. They also urge the purchase of irons, coffee pots and other small appliances that have automatic shut-off features. (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.) The most reluctant landlords, according to brokers, are owners of highly customized and lavishly appointed homes. Papier is currently attempting to rent a $10,000-a-week house on Lake George. ``This property is not rentable to 99 percent of the population,'' she said. ``The dining room walls are covered in birch bark. If you had a 4-year-old stay there, he'd peel it right off.'' Owners of the priciest homes often seek to protect their privacy. ``We have a lot of owners that don't want their homes advertised,'' McCarthy said. ``They only want to work by referral. They don't want their neighbors to see in the paper that they're trying to rent their house. It's a bit of a social thing.'' There are landlords who test the waters _ and do not take the plunge again. Hoping to cover the cost of a guest-room addition, one New York couple, who asked that their names not be used, agreed to lease their Martha's Vineyard home at $3,500 a week. The renters had a toddler, and brought along a nanny. With a 3-to-1 adult-child ratio, the owners assumed little could go wrong. During the first week, the tenants spotted a mouse in the kitchen and frantically called the owner. ``We didn't have an exterminator up there, and we didn't have a regular caretaker or handyman, so I had to spend the whole afternoon trying to track someone down,'' the owner, who asked not to be identified, said. In the middle of the second week, the dishwasher stopped working. ``I had to call the repair service and arrange for them to get into the house, but I didn't know when the renters would be home,'' the owner said. ``So I had to keep calling the broker and she had to keep calling the tenants, and again I was on the phone forever.'' These inconveniences were insignificant compared with the final blow. Upon returning the keys to the broker, the tenants announced that their child had spilled a cup of juice on the living room's brand-new sisal rug and had also wet the mattress in the guest bedroom. Although they readily agreed to forego a portion of the 10 percent security deposit for repairs, the nuisance of hiring a carpet cleaner and waiting around for a mattress delivery was too much for the owners. ``When we came up in August, we had to take care of all the problems they created,'' one said. ``That wasn't how I wanted to spend my vacation.'' After tallying up the expenses (including the broker's 20 percent commission, housekeeping, insurance and taxes) the owners pocketed less than half the $14,000 and never bothered to rent again. Not every homeowner can pick and choose so carefully. In some regions, like the Berkshires, one- or two-week tenants are hard to come by. ``There isn't a weekly rental market here,'' said Joseph Carini, president of Wheeler &AMP; Taylor Realty in Great Barrington, Mass. ``People want to rent for a month, or the whole summer.'' As a result, landlords are on their own to find _ and screen _ short-term tenants. Though renting out a home for the first time may be a fearful experience, most owners eventually become reconciled with their situation. ``People put their heart and soul into purchasing a second home,'' Papier said. ``They bought it for love, they decorated it with a passion and now they're going to let strangers stay in their beds and bathe in their tubs.'' ``They're afraid,'' she said. ``Will the renters break things? Steal things? Burn things? But once they take the plunge, they realize they can do it without hurting their property, and it takes away the financial burden. Their reluctance turns to relief.'' 
