The Kmart Corp. is investigating a group of its former executives who presided over the beleaguered retailer in the months before it declared bankruptcy, and severance payments promised to those executives are being postponed until the investigation is complete, a lawyer for the company said Thursday. John W.M. Butler, a lawyer for Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &AMP; Flom in Chicago who is Kmart's outside counsel, told a creditors' meeting on Thursday that the investigation was continuing and would probably be completed by late summer. In an interview, he refused to say which executives were the subjects of the attention or why they were being investigated. A Kmart spokesman also declined to give details, calling the investigation ``a review of the stewardship of the company by management.'' Kmart is also examining whether its accounting may have been mishandled over the last several quarters. That inquiry began after an anonymous source notified the company in January that there may have been problems in the way Kmart handled areas like vendor allowances. Kmart has requested extra time to complete its annual report because the accounting inquiry is nearing conclusion. The company said on Wednesday that ``a possible change in accounting methodology'' might force it to reissue its financial statements for several recent quarters. The annual report, describing Kmart's full financial picture for 2001, is expected to be filed by May 15, and the company has said it expects losses for the year to exceed the $244 million that it lost in 2000. It is unclear whether the former executives are thought to have mishandled the accounting themselves, since the company would say only that the investigations of the executives and the accounting are concurrent. The inquiry into the executives' roles was first disclosed at a hearing held in Chicago last week. Responding to a question from the judge overseeing Kmart's reorganization, lawyers for the company said that severance payments to the executives were being halted pending the completion of their investigation. The company continues to pay salaries that it agreed to pay when the executives left or were dismissed. ``This has been ongoing since January,'' Butler said in an interview on Thursday. ``It's the same investigation. There are accounting and nonaccounting aspects to it.'' None of the creditors, he said, asked any questions about the investigation, though a question-and-answer session was included in Thursday's two-hour meeting at the Sheraton Chicago. Still, one creditor reached late Thursday, who attended Thursday's meeting and who asked not to be identified, said he had not heard about the investigation of the executives. ``This was news to me,'' he said. A Kmart spokesman confirmed that one executive who left the company ``voluntarily'' was repaying a loan made to him after the bankruptcy filing. The loan was intended to retain that executive, whom the spokesman would not identify. The company is also reviewing similar loans made to other executives. Kmart filed for bankruptcy on Jan. 22 after a year in which its financial performance declined from unimpressive to bleak. Charles C. Conaway, who had been hired in 2000 as chairman and chief executive, had promised a turnaround by later this year. His strategy included cleaning up stores, installing better technology and focusing on mothers as key Kmart customers. At the same time, the company began a price war on many items that pitted it against Wal-Mart Stores, the largest retailer in the nation. But as Kmart dropped prices, Wal-Mart lowered its own even more, driving more business to its stores. Conaway, who has received $4 million in severance from Kmart, stepped down as chairman in January and resigned as chief executive in March, shortly after announcing that 22,000 Kmart workers would lose their jobs as part of the company's reorganization. Kmart also plans to close 284 stores around the country. Other senior executives who have left include Mark Schwartz, who was president and chief operating officer, and John McDonald, who was chief financial officer. The full details of Conaway's severance package have not been filed with the court. A $5 million loan made to him by Kmart has not been formally forgiven, a Kmart spokesman said. Even as Kmart was unraveling, Conaway and others collected hefty salaries, bonuses and loans intended to keep them at the company. Some executives received retention loans of $500,000 or more to convince them to stay on. But many have since left Kmart. The company also reported paying $10 million in severance pay to executives who did depart last year, according to documents filed with the bankruptcy court last month, along with millions more in bonuses and expenses. ``There has been a tremendous amount of really strident criticism on the supplier and bondholder side about how can Tom Coughlin, the CEO of Wal-Mart Stores, get a base salary of less than a million a year, but you're paying these guys to compromise and ultimately crater the company,'' said Burt Flickinger III, a consultant with Reach Marketing in Westport, Conn. ``When they arrived, the company was marginally increasing same-store sales. Now they're being paid several million apiece just to walk off the field.'' 
