When 200 American soldiers descended on Monday from a mountain crag into a tiny village on Afghanistan's eastern border with Pakistan, they found small children playing outside who quickly fled into their houses or were snatched up by their mothers. ``They were afraid,'' said Lt. Col. Patrick Fetterman, who commanded the battalion, from the 101st Airborne Division. ``The children were running, the women were hiding, which is usual in this culture. The men were not in evidence.'' The battalion, a rapid reaction force sent in from the air base outside Kabul, were on their first ground and air assault in the latest push against remnants of al-Qaida and the Taliban in eastern Afghanistan. They had been ordered in to extract Australian Special Forces troops who had come under rocket and machine-gun fire from gunmen in the village on Monday morning, and then to scour the village. But instead of Qaida or Taliban fighters, what they said they saw were 40 scared and unhappy villagers, many of them upset when the American soldiers searched their houses and seized weapons there. Fetterman said his men moved from house to house, breaking some doors and locks as they searched. ``We fired one shot, when a dog attacked a soldier and he killed it,'' he said. ``It was unfortunate, but we cannot risk getting rabies.'' There was no sign of the gunmen who attacked the Australians _ who had returned fire and reported hitting two men. The dead or wounded had vanished with the attackers. In a three-hour search, the American troops found only a patch of blood and spent casings marking the gunmen's firing position. Soldiers did find three hidden loads of weapons, including machine-gun ammunition and mortar rounds primed to be fired. ``They were under rope and blankets,'' Fetterman said. ``There had been minimal attempts to hide them. The villagers were not happy. ``They knew people had been hit in that village,'' he continued. ``They should not have been surprised that we came. But they saw clearly that we were as minimally intrusive as possible.'' 
