So now the world knows what I have known for more than a year: A good chunk of the DNA used to map the human genome belongs to J. Craig Venter, the scientist who led the effort at Celera Genomics (racing against the National Institutes of Health) to come up with the first rough look at our genes. Four years ago, when the possibility of mapping the human genome was first discussed, Dr. Venter asked my advice about the ethics of this undertaking. I said that a crucial issue would turn out to be whose genes were selected for mapping. From a scientific point of view anyone's genes would be fine; the detail of the first map would be relatively crude, making the tiny genetic differences that exist among human beings irrelevant. But, as I've often found _ and as the current battle over cloning human stem cells for medical research is making clear _ much more than pure science is at issue when genetics is the subject. I argued that the best thing to do in selecting people to donate DNA for the mapping project was to pick a cross-section of individuals representing major ethnic and racial groups and use contributions from each of them to produce the map. I was not saying this simply to be politically correct. Starting with a broad sample of humanity could teach an important lesson: Genetically, human beings have much, much more in common than not. That is why the genome map we now have stands for all humans. Concealing the identity of the donors whose DNA was used would make it less likely that there would be attempts to engage in flawed genetic reductionism by trying to match traits and behaviors with the DNA of their donors. Now that Craig Venter has outed himself as not only a major contributor to the mapping of the human genome but also as its major ingredient, these lessons are in jeopardy. Pundits are wondering whether Dr. Venter's love of sailing or his zest for a good intellectual fight are somehow going to show up somewhere on the map. They won't. The fact is that genes, certainly at the level of structure and organization revealed in the first crude genome map, do not by themselves make a person a brilliant scientist or a cautious bioethicist _ or anything else. Our genes are capable of producing a wide range of behavior, personality and character in each of us. Our genes are not the defining essence of who we are; there is nothing sacred about them. They are a broad set of instructions that can produce a wide array of outcomes depending on the environment in which they are activated. Human nature is not written simply in our genome. This is why proposals to ban the copying of genes through cloning or genetic engineering _ which play on our fear of the havoc that might come from changing our genes _ are misguided. Any particular genome _ whether it is Dr. Venter's or someone else's _ can produce a variety of outcomes. I wish my friend Craig Venter had not revealed that his DNA is a part of the human genome map. But now that he has, it is important to know that the ideas, hopes and dreams that led him to map the genome and to use his own DNA to do it cannot be divined in the map he helped create. If you want to know what makes Craig Venter or other people tick, then sure, it helps to know their genetic makeup. But unless you know even more about their parents, spouses, children, friends, schools, religious upbringing, teachers, heroes and mentors, just having maps of their genes won't get you where you want to go. (Arthur L. Caplan, director of the Center for Bioethics at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, was a member of the scientific advisory board at Celera Genomics from 1998 to 2001.) 
