A new-found attraction to the glamorous costumes of silent films informs designer Luca Orlandi's fall-winter Luca Luca collection. ``It's the first time I've taken on a theme in my collection,'' Orlandi said. ``Somehow, I started looking at movies of the 1920s and got hooked on them. I thought, why don't we do something a little bit like that?'' Orlandi's fall-winter collection will be featured today through Friday at the Luca Luca boutique. During the past several seasons, the designer has put his creative energies into improving the fabrics and cuts of his clothes, which have a reputation for emphasizing sexiness. Some might have said Orlandi catered to the customer base of ``babes'' who like to dress in black leather, show plenty of cleavage and have an affinity for glitzy getups. He has not completely abandoned flirtatious fashion for the fall-winter collection, but there is a move toward softer lines, more fluid fabrics, highly-feminine bias cuts and a lighter palette. ``After September 11, I felt that I should avoid somber tones. I showed nothing black on the runway for fall-winter. It didn't seem appropriate,'' Orlandi said. With his 1920s-inspired collection, avoiding black proved to be difficult. ``Every look I did I thought might look better in black and white, but I wanted things to be more gentle and uplifting, less severe,'' he said. While the inspiration for Luca Luca's seasonal selections is historical, Orlandi was careful to avoid making the pieces look as if they came straight from the studio wardrobe department. ``There are elements of the 1920s mixed in with contemporary elements,'' he said. ``These are glamorous clothes, but there are realistic clothes here, too.'' While his runway collection of 40 styles is oriented to the screen goddess theme, he also offers a number of tweed suits, not shown on the runway, and several knits, a category in which Luca Luca has developed a specialty. ``The suits and sweaters are really strong this season,'' said Orlandi. ``And so are the dresses.'' Robert Janjigian writes for the Palm Beach Daily News. E-mail: rjanjigian(at)pbdailynews.com Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
