An article on the Web site of the evangelical magazine Christianity Today alerted me to an important anniversary. This year marks the 50th anniversary of the publication of ``Christ and Culture'' by H. Richard Niebuhr, surely one of the most influential books of theology of the last two centuries. Its publisher, HarperSanFrancisco, is issuing a new edition of the book in commemoration. Few Protestant seminarians have not been assigned this book since it was published. It has been as much beloved for its insights and the gracefulness with which it is written as for the position Niebuhr championed: that the Christian church has been given the gift and the task of transforming culture to become more Christ-like. If that sounds like Niebuhr was advocating a fundamentalist theocracy, nothing could be farther from the spirit of the book. Niebuhr was a liberal, sophisticated scholar, a professor of theology at Yale Divinity School for many years until his death in 1962. His brother, Reinhold Niebuhr, was also a theologian and was more famous, but many scholars today believe Richard was the better thinker. In ``Christ and Culture,'' Niebuhr sets forth five types, five ways Christianity has related to culture, by which he means civilization as it lies outside the church. The difficulty, of course, is that Christians individually and collectively live in this civilization, unless they are walled up in a monastery, and the problem of how they should interact with culture is as old as St. Paul. At one extreme, Niebuhr describes the option ``against culture,'' taken not only by monastics but by the modern-day Amish. It is the impulse to call culture utterly corrupt and withdraw from it to a supposedly purer Christian community. Niebuhr doesn't think this is a very attractive or viable option. At the other extreme lie Christians who are ``of culture,'' who have sought to blend their Christianity with culture, perhaps trying to unite the best of each. Niebuhr understood this tendency all too well. He wrote, ``Cultural Christianity, in modern times at least, has always given birth to movements that tended toward the extreme of self-reliant humanism, which found the doctrine of grace _ and even more the reliance upon it _ demeaning to man and discouraging to his will.'' This, too, Niebuhr rejected. The other three positions Niebuhr described as ways of mediating between Christianity and culture. One, ``above culture,'' is familiar to Catholics. While secular civilization is a gift of God and holds much that is good, there are additional revelations and spiritual gifts that can only be received within the church. Another holds that Christianity and culture are in ``paradox.'' Each is a separate realm with its own rules, and the Christian moves back and forth between them, both sinner and saint. Finally, Niebuhr said, Christianity ``transforms culture.'' Christians of this type do not see culture as itself evil or as harmlessly good, but as something good gone wrong that can and should be converted back to the way God intended it. This was Niebuhr's ideal, and it fit perfectly with a Protestant ideal that viewed Western nations as essentially good but whose institutions _ art, science, government _ have been twisted or perverted and are in need of conversion. The Christian reformer _ a man like Wilberforce in England who helped abolish the slave trade _ would be a good example of what Niebuhr had in mind for this type. As a modern example, though some would disagree, evangelicals and Catholics say that our culture's laws on abortion represent a view of life gone wrong that needs to be corrected. Today, Niebuhr's easy assumption of Protestant hegemony in America no longer holds, so the book has a somewhat nostalgic feel to it. And Niebuhr has been criticized for belittling or fundamentally misunderstanding some Christian traditions. Mennonite theologian John Howard Yoder did not take kindly to being labeled part of an ``against culture'' fringe that does not do an effective job of bearing its faith. Toward the end of his career, Niebuhr began to lose the Christ in his own Christianity and turned into something of a Unitarian. Occasional hints of this can be seen in ``Christ and Culture.'' Nevertheless, Niebuhr's work remains useful for helping Christians understand some of the ways they and their forebearers have struggled with what Niebuhr calls the ``enduring problem'' of relating to those who do not share their beliefs. (Cary McMullen is religion editor at The Ledger in Lakeland, Fla. The Ledger is a member of the New York Times Regional Newspapers.) 
