California's highest court ruled Thursday that the First Amendment did not shield Nike from a lawsuit accusing it of fraud for asserting that its overseas workers received adequate wages and that its working conditions complied with safety regulations. The California Supreme Court said the fraud lawsuit should not be dismissed on the ground that Nike's defense of its labor practices was commercial speech and thus did not deserve full protection under the First Amendment. Nike had asked the court to dismiss the lawsuit, contending that its statements warranted full protection under the First Amendment because they were part of an international media debate on issues of intense public interest. The ruling was the latest effort to distinguish commercial speech, in which businesses can be held liable for false statements, from political speech, in which the speaker is often protected, even when making false statements. The lawsuit, brought by Marc Kasky, a Nike critic, accused the company of unfair competition and fraud for stating that its overseas workers earned enough to live on and were paid on average twice the minimum wage. The lawsuit also accused Nike of fraud for saying in interviews and news releases that its workers were protected from physical and sexual abuse and that its working conditions complied with applicable local laws and safety regulations. In a 4-3 ruling, the court wrote, ``Because the messages in question were directed by a commercial speaker to a commercial audience, and because they made representations of fact about the speaker's own business operations for the purpose of promoting sales of its products, we conclude that these messages are commercial speech for purposes of applying state laws barring false and misleading commercial messages.'' David Brown, a lawyer for Nike, said the company was disappointed and was considering appealing the ruling to the U.S. Supreme Court. Brown emphasized that the ruling, which considered a motion to dismiss, was not on the merits. He said it was up to a trial court to determine whether Nike's statements were inaccurate and constituted fraud. In a statement, Nike said the decision ``sets a dangerous precedent by restraining companies, such as Nike, from making public statements about their business practices when challenged in the arena of public debate.'' Nike said the ruling was especially worrisome because it did not concern paid advertisements but many statements that company officials made in response to critics who assailed conditions at its factories in Asia. Nike praised the dissenting opinion of Justice Ming W. Chin, who wrote, ``While Nike's critics have taken full advantage of their right to `uninhibited, robust, and wide-open' debate, the same cannot be said of Nike.'' The majority decision, written by Justice Joyce Kennard, said a company's statements could be commercial speech even when mixed in with a discussion of noncommercial issues. (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.) The court said its ruling ``in no way prohibits any business enterprise from speaking out on issues of public importance or from vigorously defending its own labor practices.'' It said the decision meant only that when a company, to promote its sales and profits ``makes factual representations about its own products or its own operations, it must speak truthfully.'' The California attorney general, the Sierra Club and the California AFL-CIO filed briefs against Nike's position, while the Chamber of Commerce and the American Civil Liberties Union of Northern California supported Nike. 
