The friend whom Rich Cohen calls ``Jamie Drew'' is a familiar figure in suburban American high school lore. He's the one whom all the others wish they could be. He's the cool, beautiful, confident one, the guy who stays that much more popular by being hard to pin down. He's the first to burst the bubble of high school naivete by daring to venture out into the wider world. If adult life for Jamie had fulfilled the promise of his teen-age years, Cohen wouldn't have a story to tell. But the person who peaks so early may lose that advantage as time goes on and what Cohen means to do in ``Lake Effect,'' a memoir about growing up in Glencoe, Ill., a Chicago suburb, is to fathom the subtle ways in which such change can happen. What he seeks, he writes, is ``the spirit of a certain season and the thrill of a certain kind of friendship and what happens to such friendships when the afternoon runs into the evening.'' Taking inspiration from Joseph Mitchell, the New Yorker writer whom the author would encounter after he began to write for that magazine himself, Cohen is persuaded ``that there is a shape to the real world and real life that is just as beautiful and strange as anything in the imagination.'' There are times when that shape eludes him and ``Lake Effect'' sinks into the unremarkable. There is less poetry than he may wish in the image of ``blue light flashing in windows where parents flipped from `The Tonight Show' to `MASH''') and less novelty in the generic detail (his friends referred to McDonald's by nicknames like Mickey D's). But overall, ``Lake Effect'' draws its characters with a sure hand. There are a crew of the author's middle-of-the-road pals, and then there is Jamie, just slightly off in left field. It is Jamie who first gets the author drunk, Jamie who first takes him to Chicago's South Side and Jamie who pauses to admire the perfect sunset. ``See it now,'' he says, with serious foreshadowing, ``because when it goes, it's gone.'' The author and his friends attend New Trier High School, the cosseted setting for John Hughes' growing-pains movies (``The Breakfast Club,'' ``Sixteen Candles,'' ``Ferris Bueller's Day Off''). But there are familial and socioeconomic differences that separate them, even if it takes them a while to know that. Unlike Cohen, who describes growing up in a solidly middle-class two-parent household, Jamie has lost his father and has little conventional ambition. This is part of why the friendship works: ``In him, I found an excitement and vitality that my family's relative affluence had sealed me from,'' Cohen writes. ``In me, he found the stability that had been missing from his own life. He also found an audience.'' The balance begins to shift with the SAT's, the first warning that Cohen and his friends are expected to gird themselves for college and adult life. But Jamie doesn't apply to college at the same time as the others. Eventually, when he winds up at the University of Kansas, his explanation is that ``William Burroughs lives in Lawrence, so it can't be all bad.'' He hitches west, on a trip about which one acquaintance later says: ``He was gonna Jack Kerouac it out there, swim in the ocean, and Jack Kerouac it back. But something went all screwy.'' Like his glory days, Jamie's downhill slide follows a familiar pattern. The joy fades from him, and he becomes increasingly scarce in Cohen's life. Their extreme closeness, unexaminedly homoerotic in its physical admiration and intimacy, is something from which they both turn away. But Jamie still serves as a rebellious inspiration. When Cohen gets involved with a girlfriend who wants to force him into a life of sheer conformity, Jamie counsels: ``I want to tear the pleats from your pants. I want you to stop playing house. I want you to rejoin the land of the living.'' The best of ``Lake Effect'' looks back at these changes with a wistful, knowingly adult vision, as when Cohen describes the now tame friend who was the toughest guy in high school: ``His friends still treated him with the greatest respect, though, as you will continue to call a president `Mr. President' even after he has been voted out of office.'' This is the book's way of contemplating the changing incarnations that make up the vital figures of adolescence, and of wondering where the essential self really lies. When the clean-cut high school jock turns into a dissipated stoner after a year in college, and a used-car salesman later, how are these phases connected? Not in any simple way, although a hidden side of Jamie is meant to explain much about his trajectory. In the end, for all its yearning efforts at a larger vision, ``Lake Effect'' is most memorable as a fond, lucid and bemused glimpse back through time. Cohen's connection to his past seems to remain strong. ``Thanks for not turning me in to the principal,'' he writes to old friends, in the book's down-to-earth, gently affectionate spirit, ``for letting me see your test, for letting me date your sister, for lending me your car, for buying me beer.'' PUBLICATION NOTES: `LAKE EFFECT' By Rich Cohen 208 pages. Alfred A. Knopf. $23. 
