Chronicle Publisher and President Jack Sweeney and George B. Irish, president of Hearst Newspapers and senior vice president of the Hearst Corp., the Chronicle's parent company, made the announcements Wednesday. ``It has been a distinct honor to work with Loftis,'' Sweeney said. ``He has been a true professional in both his roles as editor and associate publisher. He is a loyal friend.'' ``And we are very happy about Cohen's arrival,'' Sweeney added. ``We have worked with Jeff on numerous Hearst Corporation projects over the years. He is a top-flight journalist with a reputation for innovation and fairness.'' Cohen, 47, will become executive vice president and editor on June 3, with Loftis, 67, continuing in his associate publisher position until his official retirement. At that time, Sweeney said, Loftis will become editor emeritus of the Chronicle and will continue his 37-year relationship with the newspaper. ``Since the day I first walked into the Chronicle my intention has been to do what was best for this community, this newspaper and this staff,'' Loftis said. ``I hope I have succeeded more times than I have failed. I look forward to being involved in the transition period ahead with my longtime friend Jeff Cohen.'' Cohen, who will become the 10th editor in the Chronicle's 100-year history, was born in Cheyenne, Wyo., and moved to Houston as a child. He earned a journalism degree from the University of Texas at Austin. ``The prospect of returning to the community that nurtured me is thrilling,'' said Cohen, who has worked for Hearst Newspapers his entire professional career. ``I grew up reading the Houston newspapers. They fueled nightly debate around my parents' dinner table, and this taught me the importance of the commerce of ideas.'' The Times Union has been named the best newspaper in its circulation class by the New York state press association three of the past four years. And timesunion.com, the Web site Cohen launched in 1996, has consistently been recognized as an industry leader in digital journalism. ``Leadership talent and solid journalistic skills have made Jeff Cohen a highly regarded editor,'' said Irish. ``These attributes plus Jeff's commitment to excellence in journalism position him well to continue the very good work of Jack Loftis.'' Loftis joined the Chronicle as a copy editor in 1965. During his 15 years as the top editor, the Chronicle has won hundreds of local, state and national journalism awards, along with opening a number of domestic and foreign news bureaus. XXX END OF STORY 
