State senators on Thursday approved a bill to limit greenhouse gas emissions, raising the auto industry's ire over what it perceives as an attack on sport utility vehicles. Authored by Assemblywoman Fran Pavley, D-Woodland Hills, AB 1058 passed the state Senate by a vote of 22-13, sending it back with minor amendments to the Assembly for a vote of concurrence. If the bill becomes law, it would allow the California Air Resources Board to set tighter emission controls on carbon dioxide, which could potentially force automakers to change their manufacturing processes to make cars more emissions-efficient. Though the bill passed quickly, making it from the appropriations committee to the full Senate in only three days, supporters predicted a long campaign ahead. ``The champagne's on ice, but it's not open yet,'' said V. John White, special representative for the Sierra Club. ``It's another step on the journey -- an important one. The campaign from the auto guys has stirred up a lot of disinformation. They're clearly agitating, but it seems to have backfired in the Senate. People just don't believe them.'' The industry's trade group, the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, originally contended that the bill would harm tradesmen who use pickups and SUVs for work purposes -- saying that regulations would outlaw larger, less-efficient vehicles. In its amended form, the bill specifically focuses on ``vehicles whose primary use is noncommercial personal transportation,'' which forced carmakers to alter their argument. ``Who's going to decide what that is?'' said Alliance spokesman Eron Shosteck ``What about soccer moms in minivans for their personal transportation? The real question is, who decides what Californians drive? Consumers or unelected bureaucrats who'll make those decisions for them?'' White denied that the bill would hurt consumer choice, saying it would offer more options if carmakers introduce more hybrids and alternative fuel-source vehicles. ``The public chooses from what they're given,'' he said. ``This bill will stimulate an acceleration in the introduction time. No one argues that we're not headed for hybrids and better efficiency, it's just a question of when.'' Ford has discussed plans to introduce a hybrid SUV next year and General Motors debuted its first fuel-cell pickup truck earlier this week. Though fuel-cell technology, which uses hydrogen fuel to produce only water emissions, won't be available until the end of the decade, AB 1058's regulations would only affect models introduced after 2009. Still, the Alliance remains resolute in its fight against the bill. ``We're still opposed to it,'' said Shosteck. ``If you took every car and truck off the road in California, you'd drop carbon dioxide emissions one-tenth of 1 percent. There's no device you can put on a car or truck that can regulate carbon dioxide emissions.'' But according to Warren Bland, a professor of geography at California State University, Northridge, and an expert on air quality and transportation, the Alliance's claims ring hollow. ``The automakers are lying,'' he said. ``I don't know what they're talking about. That's an incredible assertion. Any time you burn any fuel, whether in your stove or in a car, combustion produces carbon dioxide. Maybe they're taking about California's share of world emissions, but motor vehicles account for at least 40 percent of carbon dioxide emissions in California.'' As for Shosteck's claim about the impossibility of reducing emissions with an added device, Bland said this is technically true, but misleading. ``There's no device that can do that, but there's a very simple way to reduce carbon dioxide -- burn less fuel,'' he said. ```There's nothing high-tech about it; you just have to improve fuel efficiency. But they don't want to do that, because they're making large, inefficient vehicles that people like to buy.'' If AB 1058 indeed makes it onto the books, Pavley says there's no reason why consumers won't be able to continue to enjoy those large vehicles -- they'll just burn less fuel and give off fewer emissions. ``I've always believed that California leads the way to do things environmentally, but we still love our cars,'' she said. ``This allows us to do the right thing.''  XXX 
