Maybe it's in the mail. As the Police Commission delayed its decision Tuesday on appointing an interim police chief to replace Chief Bernard C. Parks, the question arose as to whether Parks had actually tendered a letter of resignation and officially quit the force. Police Commission President Rick Caruso said Parks hadn't submitted a letter since announcing on April 22 that he's retiring, although Caruso added: ``I believe there's one forthcoming.'' Parks' attorney, Gloria Allred, said the chief had indeed sent a resignation letter last week. ``The lawyer is wrong,'' responded Police Commission Executive Director Joe Gunn. He said the only correspondence that the commission has received from Parks was a note restating his intent to retire at some point this week. ``Officially, we have not received a resignation letter.'' However, the missing resignation letter was not the reason that the commissioners were unable to pick an interim chief Tuesday. Rather, the five-member panel concluded that it needed another week to gather background about the six candidates for the position. ``We're going to shoot for making a decision at the meeting next Tuesday,'' Caruso said. ``We want more information on the candidates.'' The commissioners have already had a week to call the six candidates for the interim post but apparently didn't gather their resumes or interview the candidates. On Tuesday, Caruso indicated that the six candidates for the interim chief position are LAPD Acting Chief Michael Bostic, Cmdr. Tom Lorenzen, Deputy Chief Julius Davis, and former Deputy Chiefs Martin Pomeroy, Scott LaChasse and Larry Fetters. The interim chief will lead the Los Angeles Police Department with a full police chief's salary for the approximately six months it takes to find a replacement for Parks, who announced his decision to step down after the Police Commission declined to offer him a second five-year term. In a related development Tuesday, LAPD Cmdr. Jim McDonnell said he intends to apply for the permanent chief position. McDonnell, commanding officer of the LAPD's International Association of Chiefs of Police Planning Group, said in an interview that he won't be publicly lobbying for the job but will ``submit the paperwork when the times comes.'' ``It's a certainly a challenging job,'' said McDonnell, who has 21 years of experience with the department. ``But I love this organization, and there's a window of opportunity to turn the image of the department around.'' 
