Clark Kent used them as dressing rooms, transforming himself into Superman in less time than it takes to get a dial tone. In the 1950s, college students crammed inside them for laughs. In the 21st century, under competition from a booming cell phone market, public pay phones are quietly disappearing from the American landscape. But for Mark Thomas, pay phones are more than a mere convenience in an emergency. They offer the possibility of spontaneous, random connection, and he's determined to share his passion for them. ``There's something exciting about a ringing pay phone,'' he says. ``You just can't ignore it.'' Thomas, a soft-spoken, 34-year-old classical pianist, is the self-appointed poet of the pay phone. He runs the Payphone Project (www.payphone-project.com), a Web site devoted to documenting the slow demise of this ``cultural landmark.'' Visitors to the site will find over 100,000 pay phone numbers from across the world, from such mundane locations as high school cafeterias to more famous places like the Eiffel Tower observation deck. The site's purpose, Thomas says, is to ``encourage contact between strangers.'' It's a gold mine for the lonely and bored, those people who can't handle personal interaction yet long to reach out. And while he's clearly aware of the quirkiness of his hobby, Thomas is happy to share his knowledge with others. He recently led a tour of some of his favorite pay phones in midtown Manhattan. Amid crowds of rushing office workers, Thomas prefers to stroll, noting the various models of pay phones lining the sidewalks and in building lobbies. ``There's some really nice booths up here,'' he says, quickening his pace. ``You don't see many of those anymore.'' Ever the connoisseur, Thomas peppers his conversation with references to the many varieties of phones that fill New York's public spaces. Millions of people pass them each day, unnoticed, but for Thomas every pay phone has a story to tell. He knows, for instance, that the phones in Times Square were the first in the city to disable incoming calls, to discourage drug dealers from setting up shop. At a bank of phone booths in the walkway beneath Rockefeller Center, Thomas explores the possibilities. He tests out a few numbers of neighboring phones, disappointed to discover that none of them receive incoming calls. When one finally does ring, he strikes up an awkward conversation with a security guard who answers, standing just a few feet away. ``Who do you want?'' the guard barks. ``I just called to see if anybody's home, you know?'' Thomas explains. A moment of baffled silence, and then the guard hangs up. Not the response Thomas was hoping for, perhaps, but he's used to such reactions by now. Thomas has long been a phone fanatic. As a child he read the phone book for fun. He began collecting numbers at the Tampa Airport, before listing them on the Web site in 1996. He soon found himself inundated with submissions from other people who share his obsession. Recently, a friend who works for a major pay phone company sent in a cache of 500,000 numbers. The only problem is the occasional fake. ``People will often send an ex-girlfriend's number, or their high school principal's,'' Thomas says. On the site, the numbers are arranged by location, often with personal comments from the collector appended. ``The phone is directly in front of a palm tree,'' explains the note beside one number in Miami. The phone at the gift shop in the American Museum of Natural History in New York is footnoted: ``The most boring school trip I have ever been on.'' His site also provides links to news stories charting the decline of the pay phone industry, as well as photographs of distinctive booths from across the country -- a documentary of the passing of a cultural landmark. ``They're not going to be around forever. Not in the form we know them,'' Thomas laments, idly fingering the coin return of one phone. ``But a few will survive because they have to. People need them.'' He's referring to the estimated 5.6 million American households with no phone service. And, as many New Yorkers discovered on Sept. 11, with cellular service disrupted for hours, a pay phone is often the only way to connect in an emergency. But the industry is undoubtedly contracting. The number of pay phones nationwide has decreased nearly 30 percent since 1996, from 2.6 million to 1.9 million, according to statistics from the Federal Communications Commission. Many companies are trying to get out of what they say is an unprofitable business. BellSouth plans to sell all of its 144,000 pay phones with two years. Verizon, the largest pay phone provider in the country, says it is reducing its number of phones, while at the same time introducing new features like Internet access and unlimited usage for a higher price. While such offerings might stave off the phones' extinction, Thomas continues to celebrate their potential for random discovery. One of his favorite numbers connects to a phone in the basement of the Vatican Museum (390-66982-6988-3511, if you're interested.) ``A real pleasant voice answers 'Vatican Telephone' in Italian,'' he says with a laugh. ``You should definitely give them a call.'' (EDITORS: There is no charge for use of this story, but please send a tearsheet to Professor Stephen D. Isaacs, Columbia News Service, Graduate School of Journalism, Columbia University, 2950 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10027.) 
