Benedict Nightingale is the chief theater critic of The Times of London.  By BENEDICT NIGHTINGALE  c.2002 New York Times News Service LONDON _ Twice during Adrian Noble's production of ``Chitty Chitty Bang Bang,'' the musical that has just arrived at the London Palladium trailing a $10 million price tag, the antique car of the title sprouts wings, takes off and carries some gamely grinning actors up and over the front orchestra seats, almost decapitating the conductor in the process. At any rate, that's what happened on the show's opening night and is scheduled to happen eight times a week. On the second night, though, the car's gadgetry refused to function, forcing the management to reimburse the 2,200-strong audience members and raising doubts about the show's reliability. Now that Noble has just announced his resignation from his primary job, which is chief executive of the Royal Shakespeare Company, that car looks strangely symbolic. While he was on furlough in the West End, directing Jeremy Sams' lively if sentimental adaptation of a favorite movie, the criticism of Noble intensified. Two theatrical knights, Sir Michael Gambon and Sir Donald Sinden, publicly deplored Noble's plans for the RSC, and then Dame Judi Dench, an even more respected figure these days, proclaimed herself ``deeply worried about what is happening.'' Instead of boasting an engine that efficiently went chitty chitty, they implied, a great company was in peril of going bang bang. Like that willfully unpredictable car, the RSC has sometimes soared during Noble's 11-year reign, sometimes spluttered, sometimes glistened, sometimes resembled an overweening clump of tacked-together metal. The company may still carry its performers safely into the future, but another conductor or artistic director will have to ensure that it does. Noble has in effect been decapitated just as he opens a mixed bag of new productions _ a decent ``Antony and Cleopatra,'' a perverse ``Winter's Tale'' and interesting productions of the seldom seen ``Edward III'' and ``Eastward Ho!'' He has asked to go next March, citing the pressures of the job, and the company's board of trustees has consented, making the customary noises of grateful regret. But even if there is some rethinking of his policies before he leaves _ and there is no sign of that _ the long-term problems that Noble is bequeathing his still-unknown successor are huge. Michael Gambon described as ``preposterous'' Noble's plan to replace Stratford's 70-year-old Royal Shakespeare Theater with a $100 million ``theatrical village.'' Since the slick new playhouse in the development may seem as outmoded to future generations as the present, perfectly serviceable theater building does to Noble now, many will go on asking if this ultra-expensive project is necessary. Noble has now permanently uprooted the company from the Barbican Center, whose constituent theaters were specially built for it in 1980. As a result, the company must mainly rely on the West End theater owners when it wishes to transfer plays from its Stratford headquarters, or open them in the capital, owners who are unlikely to welcome the RSC's more adventurous, less obviously commercial work. Perhaps aware of this, the company will try to attract star actors for limited London runs. Ralph Fiennes is scheduled for a revival of Ibsen's ``Brand'' early next year. Another result is that, given its desire for exposure in London and resistance to the national tours that Noble favors, the Royal Shakespeare Company will find it harder to hire or hold onto the able but unpretentious actors that have always formed its backbone. That will mean more short-term projects, which could mean the RSC renouncing its very raison d'etre. How can it retain its identity as a classical company, let alone evolve again into the ensemble that Peter Hall envisaged when he founded it in 1961? How can Noble's policies not end in artistic dumbing down? But at least he has been grappling with a changing culture. Actors have become less willing to commit themselves to long stints on the stage. Cynics claim that the public wants greater stimulus than the RSC has traditionally offered it. Noble's argument is that a more flexible company, or series of adaptable, short-lived mini-companies, will attract new audiences. But it's not just nostalgia that makes me doubt if the gains will begin to match the losses. There are warning signs even in the competent, occasionally fine ``Antony and Cleopatra'' that Michael Attenborough has just staged in Stratford's Royal Shakespeare Theater. The verse-speaking of Stuart Wilson's Antony, a grizzled old hippie who is happiest when he's getting his back oiled on the gaudy pile of cushions that is ancient Alexandria, sometimes becomes the harried burble of an actor making a one-off return to the classical stage after several years away doing films. Even Sinead Cusack, a more experienced Shakespearean performer, occasionally seems hustled out of her verbal stride by a revival that panders to modern restlessness, not only by speeding up the play but (no Pompey, for instance) by cutting it too much. Yet Cusack's Cleopatra is the prime reason for seeing a production due to reopen at London's Haymarket Theater in September. Those who saw her as the raging alcoholic in Sebastian Barry's ``Our Lady of Sligo'' in New York, won't be surprised by a performance that is bold, brassy and sometimes as slatternly as it is sensuous. But she isn't merely a queen to be assiduously avoided by those who don't want their eardrums seared or hair torn out. She also surprises you with the quiet intensity of her love for her ``old ruffian,'' privately crying her eyes out after making an awful public scene because of his political marriage to Caesar's sister. Clarity of diction is also a problem in the ``Winter's Tale'' that Matthew Warchus has staged in the theater-in-the-round the RSC has temporarily created within the Roundhouse, itself a dilapidated arts center in the Chalk Farm area of London. That's unsurprising, since Sicilia and Bohemia have become two American states in the 1930s. I can't tell you which, because they contain country music, a seacoast, a bear, a nightclub, sheep, square-dancing, monarchs, Apollo's oracle, a Roman Catholic nun and voices that travel, or wobble, down into Appalachia, with the odd side trip to Oklahoma _ or maybe ``Oklahoma!'' Why? Search me. The RSC has always been determined to make Shakespeare fresh and punchy; but, perhaps because of the pressures facing the company, determination here seems more like desperation. Certainly the result is neither lucid nor penetrating. As it is, the normally excellent Anastasia Hille makes no great impression as Queen Hermione, and Douglas Hodge, though admirably energetic, could bring more subtlety to her destructively jealous husband, Leontes. For better or worse, this will be followed by revivals of other late Shakespeare romances at the Roundhouse: ``The Tempest'' and Noble's own staging of ``Pericles.'' Meanwhile, the new season of obscure Shakespeare-era plays at Stratford's Swan has got off to a stronger start than anyone dared hope. Anthony Clark's revival cannot provide definitive support for those scholars who believe that the Stratford maestro himself wrote ``Edward III'' around 1592. The evidence is so thin that the test becomes subjective _ does the play sound Shakespearean? _ and my own ears left the theater feeling indecisive. . Yet whoever composed the piece, and probably it was one of those playwriting committees that later produced ``Eastward Ho!,'' it proves gripping, intelligent stuff on the stage. Its subject is the moral complexities of power as they are raised by David Rintoul's king, who is scarily single-minded, whether seducing a woman, promising foes cruel deaths or refusing to send aid to his son, who is trapped in the middle of the French wars that fill the play's second half. The play is as much worth its informal, rough-theater revival as ``Eastward Ho!,'' which has been sadly neglected since Jonson, Chapman and Marston stitched it together in 1604. Only a sentimental, moralizing ending spoils their robust satire of a London in which even the little fleas feeding on the bigger fleas have lesser fleas emptying their veins. Usurers are cuckolded, conmen duped into sailing to a gold-plated Eldorado called Virginia, and Amanda Drew's Gertrude, the hilariously snobbish daughter of a tradesman, is robbed by a titled husband who is himself being fleeced of her dowry. Together with ``Edward III,'' the play left me feeling that you can't unequivocally condemn Noble's RSC. Sometimes the company will take a risk and bring it off. Sometimes even a modestly gifted cast will happily gel, as it does in ``Eastward Ho!'' Meanwhile, a West End cast led by Michael Ball and Emma Williams has certainly gelled in ``Chitty Chitty Bang Bang.'' Inevitably, Noble has been attacked for taking time off to stage a money-spinning musical that has been so well received by both the public and reviewers that tickets, which were initially on sale until September, are now available until March 2003. As several critics have wryly noted, Noble's own departure from the Royal Shakespeare Company will be financially painless. Yet he is doing no more than Trevor Nunn did with ``Cats'' and ``Starlight Express'' when he was running the company. Moreover, Noble gives heart to those of us who think him a better director than administrator. It is hard to resist his exuberant treatment of the tale of the nutty inventor who restores a beaten-up auto, sees it stolen by the child-hating tyrant of faraway Vulgaria and ends up bringing freedom and justice to that unhappy country. This compensates for sappy songs by the Sherman Brothers, distressingly winsome kids, a heroine all too aptly called Truly Scrumptious and everyone's passion for an old car. A successful future for this show is certain. A successful future for the Royal Shakespeare Company is another matter. 
