The dissident shareholder said Tuesday he doesn't plan to challenge a Delaware court's ruling that rejected his allegations against HP, and he promised to help the company succeed in its merger with Compaq Computer. But that doesn't mean he's giving up the role of corporate watchdog. ``My involvement with HP will not end today,'' he said in a statement. ``I will continue to monitor the company's performance to ensure that it acts in the best interests of all stockholders.'' Hewlett could run again for a seat on HP's board of directors _ or field his own slate of candidates _ next year. Hewlett hasn't said yet whether those are his intentions, but given the support he would get from both the Hewlett and Packard families, as well as from many individual shareholders, regaining a seat is clearly within his reach. Analyst Martin Reynolds of Gartner Dataquest said Hewlett made the right decision by conceding, saying Hewlett's campaign against the merger had begun to lose steam and credibility. ``Originally, the opposition, one could argue, was professional,'' he said. ``But it got more personal, particularly with the lawsuit.'' Initially, some observers speculated that Hewlett might keep fighting, by appealing to the Delaware Supreme Court. But Paul Fioravanti, a corporate lawyer and litigator based in Wilmington, Del., said he faced an uphill battle because the judge, in his opinions, determined that the facts do not support his claim. ``It is very difficult to overturn a trial court opinion that's based on factual determinations and particularly the credibility of witnesses,'' Fioravanti said. But despite his defeat, Hewlett has won the respect of many analysts and HP shareholders who cheered him during the March 19 vote in Cupertino. There are those who see him as a respected advocate of shareholder rights. One of them was Los Angeles investor Guy Adams, the quintessential dissident shareholder, who stunned the business world by winning a seat on the board of Lone Star Steakhouse &AMP; Saloon of Wichita, Kan. _ one of the biggest proxy contest upsets last year. When Hewlett gave a speech before the Council of Institutional Investors shortly after the HP vote, Adams sought him out to shake his hand. ``I just wanted to tell him how we walked a similar road,'' he said. ``I look upon him as someone who stepped out of the box he was part of, the board club where you just go along with the momentum. He stepped out of the comfort zone and put himself in harm's way, and I admire him for that.'' E-mail Benjamin Pimentel at bpimentel(at)sfchronicle.com. 
