The good news is that the association's annual State of the Air report finds the air isn't getting any worse, either. According to the report, which analyzed official air quality data for the years 1998 through 2000, the Houston-Galveston-Brazoria area remained in fifth place nationally for the worst ozone air pollution, a major respiratory irritant that some studies suggest may cause asthma. Ground-level ozone _ formed when nitrogen oxides and volatile organic compounds combine in the presence of sunlight _ is the main ingredient of smog. The Los Angeles-Riverside-Orange County region maintained its No. 1 ranking, a position it has held for all three years the Lung Association has issued its report. Three other California communities round out the top five. The association also claims that half of all Americans, 142 million people, live in areas where bad air puts them at risk for health problems. Those most at risk are children, the elderly and those with chronic lung disease. Janice Nolen, the association's director of national policy, said the report demonstrates the need to vigorously enforce existing air quality standards and also to resist the Bush administration's efforts to weaken key provisions of the Clean Air Act. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency adopted a new, tougher national standard for ozone pollution in 1997 that has faced many court challenges. Although the EPA has prevailed in every case, the plan is not yet being enforced. As an example of the White House's efforts to weaken clean air laws, Nolen cited a proposal to scrap the new source review provisions of the Clean Air Act, which requires major industrial plants to upgrade their pollution control systems when major modifications are made to facilities. ``We are very concerned about the direction we see this administration taking,'' Nolen said. ``The Clean Air Act has helped us clean up a lot of bad things out of the air. Unfortunately, this administration seems to be looking at rolling back some of that progress.'' Nolen acknowledged that great strides have been made in the battle against air pollution since the Clean Air Act was passed in 1970 and amended in 1990. The nation's air is unquestionably cleaner, but smog and other forms of air pollution, such as hydrocarbons and fine particulates, are still a major health concern. ``The bottom line for us is that we should have air that doesn't make people sick,'' Nolen said. ``Ozone is a toxic substance. It makes people very sick. It affects 142 million people.'' Ozone has long been suspected of aggravating existing lung diseases. A study last year of children in Southern California that was conducted by researchers at the University of California at Los Angeles provided the strongest evidence yet that ozone can cause asthma. Early this year, a team of researchers published a report in the Journal of the American Medical Association establishing a link between smog and lung cancer. ``Every day, we are learning more and more about the health effects of air pollution,'' said Dr. Nicola Hanania, a pulmonary specialist and chairman of the American Lung Association of Texas' environmental health committee. ``In the past, we thought ozone was an aggravating condition. Now we know that it can be a cause.'' Hanania said it's important when talking about air pollution and its effects on people not to scare communities unnecessarily. But policy-makers, he said, need to ``wake up and see that we have a problem that is not getting better.'' Over the past three years, Houston and Los Angeles have led the nation as the cities with the worst ozone problems. Houston claimed the dubious title of ozone capital of the nation in 1999 and 2000 but was overtaken by Los Angeles last year. That ranking was based on the old federal standard and measured the number of days the cities recorded at least one ozone reading above that standard. The Lung Association ranking is based on an analysis of federally certified data and uses a point system based on the EPA's new, tougher and as yet unenforced ozone standard. XXX END OF STORY 
