Can coffee and doughnuts revive a neighborhood? The people of South Central Los Angeles, where the worst American riots of the 20th century erupted 10 years ago, certainly hope so. In South Central the opening of a branch of Starbucks, or of a Krispy Kreme doughnut shop, is still rare and cause for celebration. The riots were triggered by the acquittal of four white police officers who had been recorded on videotape beating Rodney King, a black man caught after a high-speed car chase. The four days of arson, looting and violence that followed left 54 people dead, sent 2,400 to hospital and destroyed $1 billion worth of property. Fury at the brutality and impunity of the Los Angeles Police Department, or LAPD, had simmered a long time, but poverty had stoked the fire. The immediate need was therefore not only to revive trust in the police, but also to tackle the lack of resources and opportunity in the neighborhoods where the rioting had broken out. The LAPD still has many troubles: a shortage of officers, low morale and scandalous evidence of corruption among its anti-gang officers. But black anger at the police has diminished, not least because both commissioners since the riots have been black. Bernard Parks, who will resign as commissioner on May 5, has insisted on attending to small complaints. This made him unpopular among the officers, but it has meant more courteous day-to-day encounters with blacks, and they rallied to him when James Hahn, the mayor, announced in February that he did not want Parks to serve a second term. The financial revival started with more fanfare but has been much less dramatic. Peter Ueberroth, who had made the Olympic Games a huge, profitable success for Los Angeles in 1984, led Rebuild LA, which raised $400 million to invest in areas damaged by the riots. But big corporations showed little interest in building new manufacturing plants in neighborhoods with high crime and low education, and large investors stayed away. Big schemes have given way to more modest projects. Hence the cheers for coffee shops. Today's investors move one small business at a time. Magic Johnson, a retired basketball star, has set up a string of cinemas, restaurants and shops in inner cities across the country, starting in Los Angeles. Operation Hope runs seminars in South and East Los Angeles to teach entrepreneurs how to apply for small loans, and at the same time has worked with banks to secure commitments for mortgages and business loans. The large funds, such as the California pension scheme, or an inner-city fund started by Merrill Lynch, an investment bank, are learning to channel their money through smaller operators. By now, the grass-roots efforts have won wider attention. On April 29, the anniversary of the beating verdict, President George W. Bush visited the First African Methodist Episcopal Church, which survived the flames at the heart of the riot zone. He admired the work of FAME Renaissance, the church's investment arm, which has a $2 million venture-capital fund and $6 million to provide grants to minority small businesses. It exemplified, he said, the power of ``faith-based'' groups to deliver social and economic aid to their communities, the kind of thing he would like to see more of. The retreat of big business and the rise of smaller firms mirrors a larger pattern in Los Angeles. The riots caught the city early in a period of structural change triggered by the end of the Cold War. The large aerospace firms that had underpinned the southern Californian economy for decades closed up shop, and in their place has come an economy based on small businesses. Light manufacturing _ of clothing, jewelry and toys _ import and distribution, entertainment with its myriad supporting trades, and electronic technology have all contributed to a revival in the fortune of Los Angeles that belies the gloom of the early 1990s. This diversity has helped southern California withstand the recession more successfully than San Francisco, which bet so heavily on the Internet. But Los Angeles is still unstable. The threat this time is not conflagration, but fission. The San Fernando Valley, which makes up the northern third of the city and is separated from most of it by the Santa Monica mountains, feels poorly served by its parent. Though Valley people pay high city taxes, the costly subway system barely reaches them, and most money for the schools, they feel, is sucked up before they see it. A long-festering proposal to split off as a separate city, with a population of 1.4 million and a diverse economy, may be brought to a vote in November. The secession movement, which has also taken root in Hollywood and around the port, is another expression of the feeling that the city does not care much for the welfare of its citizens. South Central Los Angeles was right that it was poorly served, though its violent protests were mostly self-destructive. The Valley too has valid complaints, and its proposed solution may herald the breakup of the city. Los Angeles, with its vibrant mix of races, has often seemed to show America its own future. But on this question, the city may find that the nation _ which from the start chose to devolve power to states and cities, rather than manage everything from the center _ had the right idea all along. 
