Watching a Woody Allen film nowadays _ especially a movie like his newest comedy, ``Hollywood Ending,'' in which the director is also the star _ is like settling down with a plate heaped with comfort food. The meat loaf, mashed potatoes and string beans may be reasonably tasty and go down easily, but the meal still isn't one you'll be rushing off to tell your friends about. Allen has long known that classic comedy is a kind of emotional comfort food whose pleasures are based, as much as anything, on recognition. At some point in the 1970s, the intellectual, neurotic schlemiel he had portrayed in one film after another became a comic archetype. Allen had merely to appear on the screen, hunched over in a pose of pleading anxiety to elicit a set of sympathetic, laugh-ready responses. The moment his character appears in ``Hollywood Ending,'' whining about hoof and mouth disease and other imaginary ailments, you know you're back in Woody's World, a place as safe and familiar as your childhood bedroom. If that world looks a lot like New York on a particularly sparkling day, its hothouse ambience bears only a fleeting resemblance to the actual city in all its gritty, multicultural vigor. And lately the atmosphere in Woody's World has begun to feel stifling and enervated. The geographic center is a slice of the Upper East Side hugging Central Park. Any excursions beyond those borders are potentially perilous field trips. As the Jackie Gleason orchestra floods the soundtrack of ``Hollywood Ending'' with ``Serenade in Blue,'' you realize that even today, Woody's World is a place where rock 'n' roll has yet to make its stand. Gene Krupa supplies the beat. In the movie, Allen is Val Waxman, a fading auteur whose loyal ex-wife, Ellie (Tea Leoni), pressures her fiance, Hal (Treat Williams), a high-powered Hollywood producer, to hire Val to direct a big-budget New York melodrama. But just as the cameras are about to roll, Val develops a case of hysterical blindness. Beseeching his loyal agent, Al (Mark Rydell), for advice, he is warned that if he backs out now, all hope for a comeback will be shattered. In the movie's running joke _ one of the zaniest comic conceits Allen has ever dreamed up _ Val directs the picture despite his blindness. With the secret collaboration of Al, Ellie and a university student who translates Val's conversations with his hand-picked Chinese cinematographer, the director muddles his way through the project without being exposed. ``Hollywood Ending'' closes with a sensationally witty punchline that lives up to the movie's title _and that should especially delight audiences at the Cannes International Film Festival, where it is the opening-night selection on May 15. Like Allen's two previous comedies, the limp genre spoof ``Curse of the Jade Scorpion'' and the livelier ``Small Time Crooks,'' ``Hollywood Ending'' revels in its own feathery weight. Although its slinging of insider Hollywood lingo lends it a contemporary gloss, the gentle fun it pokes at the movie business is beside the point. As satire it is toothless compared with, say, Albert Brooks' ``Muse,'' with Sharon Stone as a gold-digging, psychotic sibyl. Allen's screenplay doesn't bother to make Val's personal and professional relationships remotely credible. Although there's the suggestion that Ellie champions her ex-husband out of guilt, the movie's concern for psychological realism is marginal. The movie makes a fruitless and embarrassing sidetrack by introducing Val's estranged son from an earlier first marriage. The character is an unfunny compendium of received punk-rock cliches that seems 20 years out of date. But in a more fundamental way, ``Hollywood Ending'' gets the comic job done. With its carefully spaced-out jokes and sight gags, it aspires to recapture the spirit of the silent era, when Charlie Chaplin and Buster Keaton bounced their personas off of the same old gags in much the way Allen does. For whether it's pratfalls on banana peels or Ralph Kramden warning his wife, Alice, a certain kind of comedy becomes beloved through repetition. Even as an homage to a classic style, however, ``Hollywood Ending'' often feels slapped together and incomplete. Val's bumbling exploits on his own movie set provide unlimited opportunities for dazzling physical comedy. But the movie never allows itself to descend into the impudent comic madness that Mel Brooks, in his prime, might have pumped into the same concept. ``Hollywood Ending'' does offer a few tantalizing glimpses of the movie being shot. The best is a scene in which Val's bimbo girlfriend (Debra Messing), who has pressured him to give her a role, demonstrates a spectacular lack of acting talent. But we never see an excerpt from an end product that prompts its director to quip, ``Call Dr. Kevorkian.'' There's finally no escaping the suspicion that Allen has simply lacked the will and energy of late to flesh out his ideas. Is it enough that he's content to throw a brilliant notion onto the screen and paste on enough jokes to keep us smiling? I suppose it is, although I still want more. It wasn't so long ago that Woody's World appeared to be a conscious, principled retreat in whose rare climes Allen felt free to flex his comic imagination and share his dreams. Lately it has begun to feel like a cramped, suffocating hiding place. The time may have come for him to go outside and take a long, leisurely walk. 
