NEW STRATEGY: SPILLING THE BEANS ATTENTION EDITORS: This article from the NEWHOUSE NEWS SERVICE report of TUESDAY, APRIL 30, 2002, is available as a ``separate buy.'' For information about purchasing the article, contact DEBRA WEYDERT of The New York Times Syndicate at 732-390-4480; fax, 732-390-4697; e-mail, weyded(at)nytimes.com By JAMES LILEKS c.2002 Newhouse News Service (UNDATED) The New York Times recently reported that the administration is looking at early 2003 for the attack on Iraq. Expect a ground and air war with a quarter-million troops, probably after spring, but before the first ``Matrix'' sequel. You might think: Aren't secret invasion plans usually kept ... secret? Well, that was the old style. Everything's changed. Let's now join the latest press conference on U.S. plans, already in progress, as reporters grill Tommy ``Totally'' Franks. He's just pointed to a fellow in the first row. ``General, will we be targeting Saddam himself?'' ``Of course. We know he keeps a helicopter running at all times for a quick getaway; it's yellow, with black letters, the pilot's name is Abdul Rashim, and he's on our payroll. Thanks to his efforts, we've hidden a radio transponder in the left landing strut, so we can track it when it takes off. Naturally, we'll alert Abdul first, so he can call in sick that day. When you leave today, you can pick up a sheet detailing exactly which frequency it'll broadcast on. Next?'' ``Given our chilly relations with Saudi Arabia, will there be difficulty launching the operations from more distant bases?'' ``Well, that's actually a ruse. Privately, the president has told the Saudis that unless they let us use our bases in Saudi Arabia, we'll detonate neutron bombs over Mecca. This will render this most holy site unusable for centuries, making one of the fundamental duties of all Muslims _ the pilgrimage _ impossible. Naturally, this would upset millions of non-Arab Muslims, so you can see why we're keeping this under our hat. Yes, you over there _ '' ``Are you aware you are not wearing a hat?'' ``What? Hah! You're absolutely right. Left it at my desk. Anyway, if I could go on in greater detail about asset deployment. Can we put the detailed maps up, please? Thanks. OK, you see our base here in Qatar. We're not going to be using anything from there. We just moved stuff there because it's fun to say Qatar. Try it. Altogether now: Qatar. Hah! Anyway, most of our forces will launch out of Turkey, with the other pincer coming in from Tehran airfields, here.'' ``Uh _ sir, did you say bases in Iran?'' ``Yes. Why? Oh, of course! I'm sorry. We didn't tell you that part yet. See, that's why we're waiting until next year _ we're going to topple Iran first. There's going to be an internal coup. We're coordinating now with the People's Front for a Democratic Iran, a group we've established at 105 Khomeini Plaza, Tehran _ they're up on the third floor, if you want to go interview them, and you have to knock twice, then once, then twice again, or they won't answer. Next?'' ``When one reads histories of previous wars, invasions of this magnitude were generally kept secret. Why are we being so open about our plans? Is this disinformation?'' ``Oh, now, really. Remember that flap we had a few months ago when y'all learned we might put out a fake story now and then to confuse the enemy? Remember how you screamed like monkeys sliding down a cheese grater? We've made a solemn vow to tell you everything long before it happens. More than the nation is at stake _ our credibility with the press is at stake. One more question _ you there, the wildly gesticulating fellow with the bad suit.'' ``Sir, my pager just went off, and the text message says Saddam has been shot by his bodyguard. Reuters is reporting that the army has taken control and is promising full compliance with U.N. inspectors. Any comment?'' ``By `bodyguard,' do you mean Hassan Muhammed, a trusted aide from Saddam's childhood years in Tikrit? The one man in whom Saddam confided everything without knowing that this fellow had been co-opted by the Mossad in a sex sting seven years ago? No comment. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm off to plan the invasion of Europe. This time we really are landing at Calais. That's all. Good day.'' LF END LILEKS (James Lileks can be contacted at james.lileks(at)newhouse.com) 
