Ten years after riots burned through the inner city here, Los Angeles is marking the occasion with a cascade of speeches, and to a remarkable degree, the talk is rosy. Community leaders have congratulated themselves for restoring the cityscape with dozens of new shopping complexes, and for conducting multiethnic forums. But several experts argue that these assessments ignore what is a potentially more revealing, and troubling, window into the basic well-being of these still-blighted communities. The area has some of the most widespread and chronic health problems in this huge county, and it is facing these concerns as the Los Angeles County Health Department is preparing to reduce its budget sharply and possibly lay off staff members. Even by the poor standards of urban neighborhoods, experts say, the city's South-Central section and the surrounding areas stand out, with crippling levels of diabetes, lung cancer, asthma, obesity and heart disease. A largely Latino immigrant population is unable to find proper care for minor illnesses, much less for pregnancies. The situation is aggravated by the area's having the highest number of uninsured people in Los Angeles County, which itself has the highest rate of uninsured residents in the United States, about double the national average. In the South-Central neighborhood and its environs, 47.4 percent of adults have no health insurance, according to 1999 data, the latest available. The four days of violence in 1992 hopscotched from one block to another, leaving 55 dead, 2,300 injured and more than $1 billion in damage after a jury acquitted a group of white police officers for their roles in the beating of a black motorist, Rodney King. City leaders decided that the explosion was caused largely by poor economic prospects, and focused their efforts on creating jobs. As a result, this week's speeches have generally been filled with economic statistics as the best measure of how far the area has come. But many experts are arguing that the health issues are far more telling indicators of how deep-rooted the fundamental problems are. ``I've been working on the health issues in this area for a long time, and I can tell you the issues have been getting worse for 10 years,'' said Loretta Jones, the executive director of Healthy African-American Families, a nonprofit organization founded with help from the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the University of California at Los Angeles. ``You have all these speeches these days, but the health problems are not even on the radar screen.'' For instance, the South-Central area and its environs have the county's highest number of mothers who give birth with no prenatal care _ 17 percent, according to 1999 data _ and the lowest level of adults who get what experts regard as minimal levels of exercise. Far more residents die from homicides, 56 per 100,000 residents in 1999, than any other area of Los Angeles County, which has nearly 10 million residents. ``We've known for a long time that the health of the community was linked closely to social conditions,'' said Dr. Paul Simon, Los Angeles County's director of health assessment and epidemiology, ``and so these figures do tell you something about the overall conditions in the area. Sadly, this is a chronic situation. It goes beyond access to health care or simple issues like that. It goes right to the heart of this community.'' After the riots, the organization Rebuild L.A. was formed to funnel private investment into the inner city and create jobs. While the group achieved some modest successes before it was phased out in 1997, its president, Linda Griego, says that focusing too heavily on economic issues may have allowed the more chronic and expensive health problems to fester. ``I put health at the very top of the list of issues that really need a focus now,'' Griego said. ``I would say that this is going to be the largest problem we're going to have in terms of the cost to us. Remember, the population in these areas is young. If they have these kinds of problems in their 20s or at 30 or 35, imagine what the problems will be like when they're 55.'' In other words, she said, providing jobs, difficult as it has been, may have been easy compared with addressing the area's health problems. (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.) ``In a lot of ways there has been progress in Los Angeles since 1992,'' said Stewart Kwoh, the outgoing chairman of the California Endowment, a $3.4 billion health care philanthropy that has given millions of dollars for inner city programs here. ``Has there been sufficient attention to health in these areas? Not at all. This is a crisis, there's no doubt about it.'' The Health Department changed its approach a few years ago, in part to get at the causes of the health problems. Officials divided the county into eight districts, and in each they have begun organizations to collaborate with grass-roots community groups. The county also compiled comparative statistics on measures of health in the districts, with 1999 figures, the most recent available, and the results were troubling. The residents of the area that includes the South-Central neighborhood have the highest numbers of deaths due to diabetes, heart disease and lung cancer in the county. The poverty rate, also the highest in the county, is 37 percent. More than 17 percent of mothers give birth with no prenatal care, 25 percent of adults have no regular source of medical care and 47.4 percent of adults and nearly 28 percent of children have no health insurance. Dr. Jonathan Fielding, the county's director of public health who helped design the collaboration effort, said the approach had fundamentally shifted the department's focus toward preventive medicine and away from just treating illnesses. But Fielding said the approach was being undermined by budget problems. The Health Department is expected to have a $344 million budget gap in the 2004 fiscal year and a $688 million one in the following year. This is already forcing cutbacks. Dr. Erica Watson, a health officer, explained that, until recently, she had been in charge of community health services in a district just south of the South-Central one. But Watson was recently given responsibility over an adjacent district as well with no increase in staff or budget. The South-Central district recently drew up a list of health priorities, and the top four were preventing teen-age pregnancy, creating better access to health care, providing prenatal care and creating more opportunities for children to exercise. ``Not one of the four was disease-oriented,'' said Dr. Belinda Towns, the district's health officer. ``They all get at root causes of disease. They may take a long time to provide results, but they have a better chance of long-range success.'' Jones of Healthy African-American Families added, ``For so long we just waited for everything to fall apart, then we did something in crisis mode. Now, we're talking about prevention. It's a different paradigm. Our community has been researched to death without much actually happening. We want to do something now.'' 
