Buddy Norris, a retired developer who worked decades to help change this old farm town into a nascent suburb, lingered uncertainly Thursday morning along the long, raw scar left by the tornado that lashed through here Sunday. Amid the sea of flotsam and jetsam that the tornado made of downtown La Plata, Norris brightened at the approach of a gang of Amish volunteers with chain saws. ``Hey you guys!'' Norris hailed the visitors. ``Do you know what a blessing you've been?'' The Amish men, some bearded, some boyish, smiled but had little to say as they headed on toward an utterly smashed two-story house and revved up their saws. ``Those Amish don't talk; they just work,'' said Norris' brother, Howard, as an army of cleanup volunteers from a score of outside communities worked side by side with residents to push this stricken town to a determined course of reconstruction. ``It's a new ballgame,'' declared Mayor William Eckman as he rallied residents to the rebuilding, already primed by an emergency planning outlay of $400,000 from the state. With the tornado's toll at three dead and more than 400 homes and businesses damaged or destroyed, the federal government declared a three-county swath of Maryland a disaster area. Paperwork began on reconstruction loans near a clutch of emergency tents and vans outside the busy Charles County center. The tornado, with winds in excess of 260 mph, was officially described as the worst in state history, with damage in excess of $100 million. But a 1926 tornado proved deadlier when it struck the school here and killed 13 children. As emergency shelters were closed, local schools reopened. Rain stormed down this morning as commuters, representing about a third of the town's 6,000 residents, headed off on the 90-minute trip north to Washington, D.C. Whorls of debris from La Plata homes and businesses were tracked as far as 50 miles to the east across Chesapeake Bay. Strangers arrived searching for the owners of family photographs retrieved from scatterings far and wide across the surrounding farmlands. (BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) The town was buttressing its history as much as its infrastructure. ``This old house and others are going to be the cornerstone of history in a rebuilt La Plata,'' vowed Sam Phillips, surveying the 109-year-old Victorian house that he and his wife, Holly Dunbar, had lovingly restored over the last five years. The house stood up to the tornado but suffered vicious roof gouges, bulging walls and wholesale breakage as the couple's possessions were sucked into the air. ``It's pretty painful, but the roots of the town are right here,'' Phillips insisted. ``When 13 schoolchildren died in the 1926 tornado, their bodies were carried here and laid out in this house,'' he reverently noted. ``There's a spirit here, and Ace and Lulu Creavett would want us to rebuild,'' he said of the original owners. (END OPTIONAL TRIM) The fickleness of the tornado was evident as exhausted residents along the north side of Bobwhite Court picked through the wreckage while neighbors across the street bore sad witness from houses left untouched. Contractors and insurance adjusters were busy along the most mangled stretches as state authorities warned anxious owners to beware of fly-by-night exploiters promising instant restoration. (BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) ``We came from Mechanicsville to do what needs to be done,'' said Enos Hostetler, one of the Amish volunteers. ``You can see these people are going to bounce back. It's sure not going to stay in the state of nothing we're seeing now.'' (END OPTIONAL TRIM) Rain slickened the debris as bulldozers ground away at the most devastated stretches. ``I got no insurance and no money, and I absolutely have to get my name in for emergency help to rebuild,'' said Ronald Johnson, 47,a carpenter whose house was half gone, the remainder peeled open like a wall-free stage set with stairs rising to an open-air bathroom. ``I brushed my teeth at that mirror all my life'' said Johnson, pointing up in sadness. ``I'm going to get my claw-foot bathtub out of there and make it the starting point for rebuilding the whole house.'' (BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) Friends mounted an American flag on the house's remaining bit of roof and defiantly spray-painted ``Open House'' and ``Smile'' on the side that remained, feeding Johnson's resolve to rebuild. ``My collections of antique bottles, stamps, coins _ all gone, blown somewhere into Delaware,'' Johnson said, staring forth from his sundered home. ``But I'll tell you, I'm meeting some wonderful strangers come to help.'' Henry Stoltzfus, an Amish volunteer, appeared, offering assistance. ``Save your labor; we got a machine coming to knock the rest of it down,'' Johnson responded, clapping his arm gratefully across the stranger's back. ``Praise the Lord,'' advised Stoltzfus. ``Keep showing thumbs up.'' 
