Davis' top political adviser said there is ``never a connection between contributions and policy.'' Davis simply does not want issues such as how textbooks and curriculum are selected placed in the contentious process of bargaining pay raises and job conditions, the adviser said. The teachers union has an ambitious legislative agenda that would drive a stake through the heart of the education policy changes Davis has championed over the past three years. A California Teachers Association spokesman said Davis asked for the $1 million on Valentine's Day but won't say their refusal to give was the reason for the Democratic governor's opposition. ``Davis hit us up two or three times for a $1 million contribution. He doesn't understand the intensity of dislike for him by California teachers. They loathe him,'' said Wayne Johnson, president of the 330,000-member union. Davis, a tireless fund-raiser with more than $35 million in campaign cash, has been stung throughout his first term with charges that his gubernatorial actions are influenced by contributions, which he denies. The governor was criticized for taking $251,000 from the prison guards union just weeks after signing a 34 percent pay increase for correctional officers in January. The teachers union is not the only group Davis has asked for $1 million. Davis also has solicited the Council of Carpenters and the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, according to sources familiar with the unions' governance. Neither group has given $1million, but last year, AFSCME gave Davis $200,000. ``It's stunning to think of someone asking for $1 million,'' said Bob Stern, president of the Center for Governmental Studies in Los Angeles. ``The governor may have a lot of reasons for opposing the bill beyond fund raising, but I still think because of the fund-raising situation, anytime you turn your back on an ally after they've turned you down, people have to start drawing conclusions,'' Stern said. Garry South, Davis' top political adviser, said he wasn't privy to how much money Davis sought from the unions. But ``my suspicion is there may have been conversations asking (the teachers union) to match or exceed what they gave us in 1998, and that would be $1 million or more,'' South said. The union has two major bills before the Legislature. One would broaden bargaining to give teachers more power in deciding what curriculum a district uses and which textbooks districts purchase. The other would overhaul the state's testing system and repeal two of Davis' programs that give more money to schools and teachers whose pupils' test scores improve. The union decided to push the bills because they say their members' main gripe is the tests pupils must take and the weight given the results in determining cash rewards or sanctions. ``Teachers hate the testing, the Academic Performance Index scores, the comparisons, the bonus awards, and it was his idea,'' Johnson said. ``We made a major effort for him in 1998, and we feel betrayed.'' Although Davis has increased money for public schools by 30 percent since taking office, Johnson said ``every nickel is spent before it reaches the classroom.'' Davis sees it differently. ``The proof is in the pudding. Test scores have gone up three years in a row,'' South said. ``The governor's education reforms were not designed to please any one particular constituency group in the field of education,'' South said. ``They were designed to help our kids learn.'' After Davis' $1 million request, union officials said they met with the governor several times over the past two months to search for a compromise on the bills. Davis told them he could not sign the testing bill because it would undercut his school accountability program. And despite Davis' opposition, the union is pushing the collective bargaining bill in the Legislature. As for Davis, the CTA has sent him just $10,000 since Feb. 14, for a Southern California fund-raiser. The union does endorse Davis for re-election, though. This year's clash between Davis and the union is just the latest salvo in an on-again, off-again battle between the two that has dragged on since Davis took office in 1999. Over the past three years, Davis and the union have locked horns over school funding, school bonds, pupil testing and cash bonuses for effective teachers. Dissatisfied with the amount of money Davis offered them in his 2000 budget, the union bankrolled signature-gathering for a proposed initiative that would increase per-pupil spending to the national average. The threat of an embarrassing ballot war in which Davis could appear as the penny-pinching heavy prompted him and lawmakers to cut a budget deal giving schools nearly $2 billion more than the minimum owed. The union was also upset when Davis sat out the CTA-backed fight to pass a ballot measure in March 2000 that would have lowered the threshold for approval of local school bonds from two- thirds to a majority. Despite the union spending $20 million to pass it, the measure was narrowly defeated. Davis' endorsement could have made the difference, they believed. Davis then put his own weaker proposal on the ballot in November, which lowered the approval threshold to 55 percent. It won. The CTA sat that campaign out. 
