Secretary-General Kofi Annan said Wednesday night that he intended to disband on Thursday his fact-finding mission into Israel's attack on the Jenin refugee camp in the face of implacable Israeli resistance. His announcement _ while not unexpected after more than a week of objections and delays by Israel _ threw the Security Council into disarray. The council wrangled in closed session into the night as Arab delegates at first tried to push through a resolution condemning Israel under Chapter VII of the U.N. Charter as having committed ``Action with respect to threats to the peace,'' which carries the potential of sanctions. Any such resolution would almost certainly draw a U.S. veto _ which Washington wants to avoid for fear of appearing to be biased in Israel's favor. The meeting broke first around 8 p.m. but resumed and then broke again at 11 p.m. and was expected to continue far into the night. The Arab group modified its resolution, removing the Chapter VII threat, but still demanding that the secretary-general ``proceed with the dispatching of the fact-finding team,'' and that the Israelis cooperate. The United States, for its part, introduced a substitute resolution ``commending the efforts of the secretary-general to develop accurate information'' on the events at the Jenin camp and, while regretting the decision of Israel not to cooperate, ``supports the decision of the secretary-general to disband that team.'' In a three-page letter to the Security Council, Annan reviewed the efforts during the past 12 days to send a fact-finding mission to investigate the killings and destruction last month at the Palestinian refugee camp in Jenin, part of a larger military operation in the West Bank that Israel says was intended to root out a ``terrorist infrastructure.'' Annan recalled in the letter how the Israelis had raised objections to the fact-finding mission and finally rejected it altogether on Tuesday. He wrote: ``In light of yesterday's announcement by the government of Israel, it seems evident that the team will not be able to proceed to the area to begin its mission in the near future.'' While he said he had not received any written communications from the Israeli government since April 27, ``in my telephone conversations over the past two days,'' he wrote, ``high-level Israeli officials have broached issues additional to those raised by the delegation that came to New York last week, and there have been indications that this list may not be exhaustive. ``As the secretariat has noted in its briefings to the council, time is also a critical factor. With the situation in the Jenin refugee camp changing by the day, it will become more and more difficult to establish with any confidence or accuracy the `recent events' that took place there,'' he said. ``For these reasons,'' he said, ``it is my intention to disband the fact-finding team tomorrow.'' One of Annan's top aides, Undersecretary-General Kieran Prendergast, noted somewhat sourly on Wednesday night that ``the idea of a fact-finding team wasn't the secretary-general's in the first place'' and that Annan had proceeded only after receiving assurances of Israeli cooperation. ``I think the secretary-general thought it was a good idea and in everybody's interest to have an impartial and accurate, credible, comprehensive report on the facts in Jenin,'' Prendergast said. ``So of course he regrets that it is not now going to be possible, it seems.'' (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.) The impasse put the Americans in the awkward position of opposing enforcement of a resolution they themselves sponsored. It came about this way: On April 19, a day of diplomatic maneuvering in which the United States tried to avoid casting a veto against a strongly worded Arab resolution, Israel's foreign minister, Shimon Peres, who was in Washington, called Annan to say that the secretary-general should personally appoint a fact-finding mission, adding Israel ``had nothing to hide.'' The Americans then introduced a substitute resolution, based on Annan's ``initiative,'' which was unanimously adopted. But almost immediately, Israeli officials, including Peres, began raising objections to the fact-finding team, contending it was prejudiced against Israel. Israeli officials have raised at least a half-dozen conditions, including that the mission also investigate Palestinian terrorism, that Israel control submission of documents and testimony to the commission, that it have the power to review and comment on Palestinian testimony, that soldiers and officials be guaranteed immunity from any future prosecution, and that the team not reach any ``observations'' or ``conclusions.'' 
