Editors, in addition to those stories listed on the AM-NYT-BUDGET, AM-ADD-NYT-BUDGET, BC-PAGE1-CONSIDER, BC-EARLY-FRONTPAGE and BC-FINFRONTS, these stories will also move on The New York Times News Service wire for Friday, May 3. The New York Times News Service night supervisor is Pat Ryan; phone: 888-346-9867; e-mail: patryan(at)nytimes.com. 	INTERNATIONAL 	(Will move in the ``i'' news file.) 	VENEZUELA-CHAVEZ (Caracas, Venezuela) _ Relaxing with a cigarette in hand, wearing jeans and loafers, President Hugo Chavez did not look like he had been to the edge of the political abyss and back. But in an interview away from the presidential palace, Chavez said the experience of being ousted from office last month in a popular uprising, then restored to power two days later, had not fundamentally changed him. By Juan Forero. 	GUATEMALA-RIGHTS (Miami) _ An escalation of threats and deadly violence against human rights workers investigating past atrocities in Guatemala has prompted fears among international groups that the country is descending into its worst crisis since the end of its civil war. By David Gonzalez. 	GERMANY-U.S.-EMBASSY (Berlin) _ After years of disputes over security and national pride, Germany and the United States signed an agreement on Thursday to build a new American Embassy on the prominent empty lot where the old one stood before World War II. By Steven Erlanger. 	MOSCOW-RACE (Moscow) _ Taddele Gebre, a refugee from southern Sudan by way of Ethiopia, had his most recent brush with fear last month in the Moscow metro. Returning home from church, he entered a subway car and found himself facing about 20 youths, some with shaved heads. ``They were saying, `You black, go home, or you'll be a corpse here,''' recalled Gebre. In all, Gebre said he has survived seven serious racial attacks in four years. Moscow's ethnic minorities, in particular Africans, Asians and people from the Caucasus region, south of Russia, report that in the past five years, racial attacks have been on the rise. The problem has slowly gained national attention _ in his April address to the nation, President Vladimir V. Putin warned against the rise of fascist groups. A Moscow Journal by Sabrina Tavernise. 	OBIT-MILGROM (Undated) _ Ida Milgrom, a teacher, economist and musician who helped to lead an international campaign to free her son, the Soviet dissident Anatoly B. Shcharansky, from prison, died on Wednesday in Jerusalem. She was 94. Her son, now called Natan Sharansky and a deputy prime minister of Israel, spent 12 years behind bars and was released in 1986. By Christoper Lehmann-Haupt. 	(Editors, all obituaries carry an ``a'' general news category code) 	WASHINGTON 	(Will move in the ``w'' news file.) 	BUSH-STUDENT-LOANS (Washington) _ In the face of strong congressional opposition, the White House has abandoned a proposal that would raise the cost of federally backed loans for college students, administration officials said Thursday. The proposal would have ended a program that allows college and graduate students to consolidate their loans at a federally subsidized fixed rate and take as long as 30 years to pay them off. By Christopher Marquis. 	CULTURE 	(Will move in ``e'' news file.) 	RICKYJAY-THEATER-REVIEW (New York) _ If you think of the Devil as the eternal con man, then the Devil may well be Ricky Jay. Or at least the public version of Ricky Jay, who is now presiding with such charmed complacency over the Second Stage Theater, where his new one-man show opened Thursday night. Reviewed by Ben Brantley. 	Story has moved. 	(Editors: All clients receive all budgets, but only full-service clients receive all stories. Please check your level of service to determine which stories you will receive.) 
