British combat troops, spearheaded by up to 1,000 Royal Marines and supported by US attack aircraft, swept through rugged terrain in eastern Afghanistan Thursday, scouring one of the last suspected pockets of enemy resistance. While the contingent conducts the search-and-destroy mission for suspected Al Qaeda and Taliban fighters and bases, allied troops are counting on Pakistani security forces across the border to push hundreds of fugitive fighters back into Afghanistan, according to US military officials. The British-led operation, dubbed Operation Snipe, is the largest combat deployment of British troops since the Gulf War. It is designed to flush out guerrilla fighters who have eluded capture since mid-March, the end of Operation Anaconda around Shah-e-Kot, the biggest ground offensive of the war. Also being targeted are enemy forces who fled to Pakistan but have returned in small numbers in a possible attempt to undermine the new Afghan government and attack US and coalition forces. Allied officials would not say where the operation was taking place. Several hundred US ground troops are believed to be taking part. ``This is one of the few remaining areas that has never before been investigated by coalition ground forces,'' British Brigadier Rodger Lane said at Bagram air base, north of Kabul. ``We have good reason to believe that it is, or has been, a key base for the Al Qaeda terrorist network.'' Coalition troops had not encountered any of the enemy by Thursday evening, British military officials said. Key lessons from previous engagements with Taliban and Al Qaeda fighters, in the Shah-e-Kot mountains and Tora Bora in December, have been folded into the new strategy, according to US military officials. By attempting to minimize any chance of escape and relying primarily on US and British troops rather than Afghan proxies, US commanders hope to trap their prey in a vice grip that was lacking in previous assaults. The strategy calls for Pakistani forces, with the help of small US special forces teams, to force hundreds of suspected Taliban and Al Qaeda militants hiding in the country's lawless tribal region to flee to Afghanistan, where coalition troops will be waiting. ``Inside our borders, our forces will take action soon,'' a Pakistani diplomat in Washington, who asked not to be identified, said Thursday. He confirmed that a small number of US special forces, including communications and intelligence experts, are operating on the Pakistani side of the border to help coordinate operations. At Shak-e-Kot and Tora Bora, hundreds of enemy forces are believed to have escaped across the border to regroup in western Pakistan, an area where Pakistani authorities historically have had a small presence, little influence, and even less control over the porous border. This time, however, the militants would be forced back in the other direction. ``We haven't seen that yet, but pushing them across into our area is the ideal,'' said a senior US defense official, who requested anonymity. Another reason for the change in tactics is that Taliban and Al Qaeda holdouts are no longer operating in large groups, as they were earlier in the conflict. The US defense official said the enemy is believed to be operating in groups of between 10 and 100. ``It's looks like the bad guys are not bunched up the way they were,'' said John Pike, a military analyst at GlobalSecurity.org, a think tank in Alexandria, Va.. Like in Vietnam, he said, the primary tactic has now become ``search and destroy,'' in which combat troops are sent on patrol to force the enemy to attack and in the process show itself. ``In the real world there are not many other ways to do it.,'' Pike said. ``But this time the attrition strategy favors us; it did not in Vietnam.'' The reliance on US and British troops, rather than allied Afghan fighters who many have changing alliances,, is also a shift from previous operations. US commanders have been disappointed by the level of effort by Afghan troops. Operation Snipe, begun four days ago with what British officials called a ``full range of combat power,'' is expected to be intense and methodical. British, US, and some Australian troops are searching rugged terrain, hidden bunkers, and remote villages for an enemy who has had months to hide in the wild or blend in with sympathetic tribesmen. Complicating their task are mountain peaks in the area that reach 8,000 to 13,000 feet, British officials said. The campaign in such an area is dangerous and unpredictable, as evidenced by a rocket fired Wednesday in Pakistan where US special forces were sleeping. The rocket, believed to have been fired from inside Afghanistan, missed its target by 300 yards. In the southeastern Afghan city of Khost Thursday, three or four rockets or mortars landed several hundred yards from an airfield used by US troops and aircraft. No damage was reported. MacQuarrie reported from Kabul; Bender from Washington. Material from wire services was included in this report.. 
