Reality TV finally got real. ``Frontier House,'' a series that ended Wednesday night on PBS stations, went where history books rarely go _ into the sweaty, grimy, frustrating business of daily life for ordinary people. By sending three modern families back into the uncomfortable clothes, unforgiving environment, and one-room cabins of 1883 Montana, the program gave participants and viewers an unvarnished look at America's past and present as well as encouraging introspective journeys to a core question: What do human beings really want and need? Unlike the superficial ``Survivor'' and copycat shows, the PBS series devised no gross-out tasks and had no jackpot. The prize was simply _ and not so simply _ the experience of trying to live off the land from May to October while storing enough food, hay, and wood for a Montana winter. ``We wanted the challenge of exploring who we are,'' said Nate Brooks in a telephone interview. The 29-year-old left his job as Fisher College events coordinator and Outward Bound instructor to go back to the 19th century with his 68-year-old father, Rudy. Together they spent what Nate calls ``deeply meaningful time'' chopping trees and building a cabin for Nate's July 4 frontier wedding to Kristen McLeod, 28, who was then a social worker in Charlestown. When she joined the show, Rudy went home to Oakland, Calif. Nate and Kristen, who now live in San Franciso, were one of 5,000 couples and families who applied to be public television homesteaders. They were also voted most likely to survive by a team of historians who assessed the homesteads when the project ended last fall. Youth and no dependents gave them the advantage over California millionaires Gordon and Adrienne Clune, who went to the frontier with three children and a niece, and Mark and Karen Glenn, the bickering middle-class couple from Tennessee, who came with two children. Kristin said she ``had moments when I really wanted a shower and was so sick of washing dishes in dirty water.'' But she adds: ``I'm a lot calmer now. At one point in my Boston life I was working 40 hours a week, taking a class, and teaching. Now I'm more comfortable with just being and not doing.'' In interviews with PBS, the other former homesteaders did not sound as comfortable with reentry. They lamented their lack of physical activity and family time and missed the sense of purpose that came in a daily struggle on the land. The viewer, too, is loath to leave the Montana cabins in the October snow. Clicking off the television, a person sees the 21st century with renewed appreciation for tasks made easy _ and with regret, because the quest for peace and meaning is often so hard. 
