Looking enviously at Asian tigers such as Taiwan and South Korea, which have become big exporters of high-tech goods, Brazil dreams of becoming a Latin jaguar. Last year, after six years of external deficits and a big currency devaluation, it finally achieved a surplus in its trade in goods of $2.6 billion. But this was dwarfed by a $27 billion deficit in services, debt payments and other invisibles. The prices of the country's exports of food and raw materials remain weak. The answer, the government says _ and its opponents agree _ is to boost production and exports of more sophisticated goods, from electronics to petrochemicals. Jose Serra, the presidential candidate of President Fernando Henrique Cardoso's Social Democrats, argues that Brazil must now take a ``leap'' into becoming a maker of microprocessors, just as previous government-backed plans turned it into a big producer of steel, and then cars. But like several of its neighbors, Brazil is still smarting from Intel's decision in 1996 to choose tiny Costa Rica for its first microchip plant in Latin America. The government hopes to persuade Intel's chief executive, who is due to visit Brazil next month, to build a similar plant there. The timing is not propitious. Last month, Dell postponed a planned expansion of its computer assembly plant in southern Brazil because of the slump in the electronics industry and weak economic growth. Even so, it is worth the government putting in a bigger effort than it did last time, when ministers reportedly were unwelcoming to Intel managers, fobbing them off with junior officials. But in the end, bagging a chip plant may depend on the government's willingness to give subsidies and tax breaks. State governments have long wooed car firms with such sweeteners _ and been criticized for wasting taxpayers' money in doing so. The trade minister, Sergio Amaral, says a new law offering tax breaks to information-technology firms is leading to higher investment. But a welter of taxes on business mean that, even with such incentives, the burden remains high. Reforms of the tax system, which perversely favors imported components over locally made ones, have been promised for years. But both the government and Congress have so far shrunk from the reform, which would create losers as well as winners. Neither is there any prospect of a constitutional change to end big incentives to put factories in Manaus, in the heart of the Amazon jungle, which means taxes on firms in more suitable industrial locations are higher than they would otherwise be. All the candidates in this year's presidential election make vague promises of more active industrial policy to promote investment. But that could backfire. Talk of a return to price controls in oil and petrochemicals may discourage investment in those industries for example. The best way to make Brazil a more attractive place for manufacturing investment is to bring costs down. And that means fixing the tax system, liberalizing labor markets and, above all, cutting public borrowing and so bringing interest rates down. 
