In the face of strong congressional opposition, the White House has abandoned a proposal that would raise the cost of federally backed loans for college students, administration officials said on Thursday. The proposal would have ended a program that allows undergraduate and graduate students to consolidate their loans at a federally subsidized fixed rate and take as long as 30 years to repay them. The White House, which is trying to make up for a $1.3 billion shortfall in its Pell Grant program for low-income students, had said the money could be recouped by making the consolidated loans available at variable rates. Officials backed away from the proposal on Thursday without officially renouncing it. ``Obviously, it's not going anywhere in Congress,'' one White House official said. ``We will continue to work with Congress to make up for the shortfall created by Congress.'' Democratic lawmakers and consumer groups had opposed the change. All 22 Democrats on the House education committee wrote to President Bush saying that keeping low interest rates for students was critical to making college affordable. Rep. George Miller of California, the senior Democrat on the committee, said raising the costs of higher education when many families were struggling to pay their bills was ``completely wrongheaded.'' ``Clearly, these are not the actions of somebody who wants to be the education president,'' Miller said. Sen. Tom Harkin, D-Iowa, said that under a variable loan rate, students would have seen their education costs rise by thousands of dollars. Consumer groups estimated that losing the fixed-rate advantage would cost a borrower of $17,000 more than $6,000 over 20 years. Administration officials said on Thursday that they would have to find a way to cover the shortfall in the Pell Grant program, which provides financial aid to 4.5 million low-income students. ``Congress created a serious fiscal problem in 2002, when they underfunded the program by some $1.3 billion,'' Ari Fleischer, the White House spokesman, said this week. He added: ``Education is a top priority for this president, and he will remain committed to it. But there is a shortfall in the funding formula as a result of congressional action.'' Democrats countered that Bush's $1.35 trillion tax cut was to blame for underfinanced programs. The loan consolidation program, which began in 1986, allows a student to merge several variable-rate loans into one fixed-rate loan that is guaranteed by the government. Interest rates for education loans are at historic lows, about 4 percent, and are projected to rise over time. 
