Germany, which prides itself on a ``social consensus'' between workers and industry, is now bracing for the most combative confrontation between unions and manufacturers in at least seven years. Germany's powerful metalworkers' union _ which represents 2.7 million workers at companies that include DaimlerChrysler, Porsche, Siemens and Bosch _plans to start a wave of strikes on Monday that will move from factory to factory through this country's industrial heartland. The strikes, the first industrywide walkouts here since 1995, could make it harder for this country to bounce back from a severe economic slowdown. But they may be more important as an indicator of Germany's ability to break free from entrenched patterns that have made it the slowest-growing economy in Europe for much of the last decade. Rarely have industry and unions here been so openly hostile to each other. The metalworkers' union, IG Metall, is demanding wage increases of 6.5 percent, about three times the current inflation rate. Industry leaders, convinced that strikes are all but inevitable, are openly warning about factory lock-outs _ refusing to let nonstriking workers report for duty at factories whose supplies have been disrupted by strikes at other companies. The conflict says much about the painful changes coursing through Germany. Though the German economy is by far the biggest in Europe, it has also become one of the weakest. Unemployment remains nearly 9 percent nationwide, and nearly twice that high in the formerly communist east. Economic growth is stagnant, and it has been lower than in almost any other European nation since the mid-1990s. Adjusted for inflation, government statistics indicate that average monthly take-home wages here dropped from 2,380 German marks, or $1,400, in 1993 to about 2,220 marks in 2000. The strikes also pose a serious political risk for Germany's chancellor, Gerhard Schroeder, who pleaded in vain last week for an agreement. Schroeder's Social Democratic Party relies heavily on union support, but a debilitating strike could cost the party dearly in national elections this fall. The difficulty is all the greater because of internal politics within IG Metall, once a major source of economic and political power. The union's longtime president, Klaus Zwickel, will soon be retiring, and an intense battle is under way among those who want to support him. Both of the main rivals, Juergen Peters and Berthold Huber, are under more pressure to court existing members than to worry about future growth. IG Metall has seen its power wane sharply. It has lost nearly 1 million members over the last decade as companies have shifted factories to Central Europe, Asia and the United States. Many companies have by-passed national negotiations, hammering out individual deals with their own workers. And in eastern Germany, more than half of all companies do not even take part in what are supposed to be industrywide contract negotiations. Now, union leaders are casting aside their previous caution. ``Neo-liberalism has meant nothing more than a redistribution of wealth in favor of industry,'' said Berthold Huber, the head of IG Metall in the industrial state of Baden-Wuerttemberg . ``What people are saying now is that they want a fairer share.'' (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.) Baden-Wuerttemberg, which is home to companies like DaimlerChrysler as well as thousands of automobile parts suppliers and equipment manufacturers, will be one of three states where workers will strike on Monday. The other states are Berlin and Brandenburg in eastern Germany. Industry negotiators and many economists argue that any wage increases of more than 3 percent will delay Germany's economic recovery and lead to higher unemployment. ``The effect on the German economy would definitely be negative,'' said Joachim Scheide, an economist with the Institute of World Economics in Kiel. ``It already seems like we are in some kind of new world. In recent years, we had the idea that wage increases had to be modest. Now that era seems to be at an end.'' While the big metalworkers' union has always been among the most militant in its rhetoric, analysts are convinced that the union leaders have now adopted a new hard line. German chemical workers reached an agreement in April for wage increases of 3.3 percent, plus a one-time payment. That itself was more generous than many experts had been predicting just a few months earlier. But the much-bigger metalworkers' union dismissed that deal as far too modest. ``They want to get more, and I think they are going to get it,'' said Martin Werding, a labor economist at the Ifo institute for economic research in Munich. ``The unions have lost patience with wage moderation.'' 
