What's bugging America's and Europe's top trade negotiators? Robert B. Zoellick, the U.S. trade representative, and Pascal Lamy, the trade commissioner for the European Union, recorded some impressive successes in their first year as counterparts. Yet the trans-Atlantic dispute over steel tariffs has turned these old friends into public adversaries who have traded barbs in advance of their one-on-one meetings this week in Washington. Though the two remain at odds over some fundamental issues, outsiders say it appears they may be engaged in shadow boxing as each plays to domestic constituencies. ``A lot of this is bluffing,'' said Claude E. Barfield, director of trade policy studies at the American Enterprise Institute. If Barfield is right, the two sharp-witted trade negotiators may have found a clever way to accomplish their goals. If not, tensions could worsen between the world's two biggest trading powers. Zoellick and Lamy became friends in the late 1980s, when Zoellick worked for James A. Baker III, the former secretary of state, and Lamy, who is French, worked for Jacques Delors, the former president of the European Commission. Both take academic approaches to policy and have been avid distance runners. Since Zoellick assumed his position last February, he and Lamy have taken credit for resolving long-running disputes on bananas and wheat-gluten and for starting a new round of trade talks at the World Trade Organization's meeting last fall in Doha, Qatar. Until recently, their friendship lent a warmer, more conciliatory cast to high-level trade negotiations. But as the Bush administration moved closer to imposing tariffs on imported steel to help an industry struggling to reorganize _ and not coincidentally to help sway voters in battleground states like Pennsylvania and West Virginia _ Lamy put up a loud cry. In December, he called an American trade panel's recommendations for steel tariffs ``a blatant call for protectionism'' and ``a clear violation of WTO rules.'' Lamy wrote to Zoellick in February, suggesting that in lieu of tariffs, the United States should follow Europe's example and impose a levy on all steel sold in this country, wherever it was produced, to pay the pensions of retired steel workers and to speed the industry's consolidation. In his reply, Zoellick shot back: ``Given the EU's past and present practices in the steel sector, I had hoped that you might show greater appreciation for the U.S. interest and need to consider safeguards as our industry restructures.'' In early March, President Bush announced new 100 percent tariffs on almost one-third of the nation's steel imports. Within three weeks, the European Union had installed its own tariffs of up to 26 percent, ostensibly to block cheap steel originally intended for the United States. On April 19, the EU proposed retaliatory tariffs of up to 100 percent on American exports ranging from billiard tables to ball-point pens. But as some industry lobbyists see it, there is less here than meets the eye. The Europeans ``seem to be creating more pressure rather than dampening it,'' said Alan Wolff, a former deputy U.S. trade representative who is now managing partner of the Washington law office of Dewey Ballantine, whose clients include several steel companies. Lamy's espousal of retaliatory tariffs also seemed peculiar to Barfield. ``I'm not suggesting he's totally false there, but it's an odd picture,'' he said. Lamy's spokesman, Anthony Gooch, hinted that the tone of his boss' comments was at least partly pro forma. (BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) ``Sometimes one has to express positions firmly because that's what one is required to do,'' he said on Monday. ``I think both gentlemen can take forward their relationship on its merits and not allow issues that are part of their job to become more than that.'' Asked about the relationship between Lamy and Zoellick, a senior trade official in Washington said: ``Are there tensions? Sure. Are there vast areas of cooperation and benefit? Absolutely.'' Others contend that the trade negotiators have little choice but to play, at least publicly, to the influential political and economic interest groups at the heart of the dispute. (END OPTIONAL TRIM) ``Bob Zoellick and Pascal Lamy get along very well, and they're both very clever people,'' said Brigitte E. Granville, who heads the international economics program at the Royal Institute of International Affairs in London. ``Unfortunately both of them have received their orders from whatever lobby is dominant.'' The European Union may indeed be saying one thing and doing another. The union is a crucial participant in talks among rich countries on cutting world steel-making capacity. Gooch said prospects for the talks were ``severely impaired'' while the American tariffs were in place. But another senior American trade official reported that the EU's delegation was ``surprisingly constructive'' at the latest talks, two weeks ago in Paris. ``Part of what you see in the rhetoric is a twofold desire on the part of Lamy,'' said Charlene Barshefsky, Zoellick's predecessor in the trade post, who is now a partner at the law firm of Wilmer, Cutler &AMP; Pickering. ``One is to make clear that Europe is mighty unhappy about what the U.S. did,'' she said. ``Second is the advantage he perceives Europe gains with other trading partners by maintaining a very strong stance against the United States.'' Alternatively, both Zoellick and Lamy could be taking advantage of a bad situation to help their capacity-reduction cause. Michael Gambardella, who analyzes the steel industry for JP Morgan Chase, suggested that a rash of tariffs could make steel exporters like Japan and Russia nervous. ``Everyone puts up trade barriers, and then what happens is, the guys who are big net exporters of steel finally have to close capacity,'' he said. (STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.) Still, Granville sees an underlying danger in all this gamesmanship. She fears that the EU, in its haste to retaliate against the American tariffs before the WTO has ruled on their legality, risks destroying the very organization set up to help settle such disputes. ``It's a failure of Europe,'' she said, ``to play by the rules. If they are not so sure of the rules, they should say, `Why don't we wait, and go to the WTO, and let them legislate?''' 
