China's vice president and heir apparent, Hu Jintao, spent Wednesday at the White House, meeting with President Bush and half a dozen cabinet members in his first official visit to Washington. More symbolic than substantive, the series of meetings touched on issues spanning the range of U.S.-China relations, including the anti-terror campaign, human rights, trade and Taiwan. ``We had a good discussion,'' a smiling Hu, speaking in his native Mandarin Chinese, told reporters as he left the West Wing. Hu, waved quickly, then ducked into a waiting limousine provided by the administration. Hu, widely expected to replace outgoing Chinese President Jiang Zemin in about a year, was invited to the White House several months ago by Vice President Dick Cheney. Cheney met with Hu early in the day in the Roosevelt Room, then hosted a luncheon in his honor with Labor Secretary Elaine Chao, Commerce Secretary Donald Evans and Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill. Later Hu met in the Oval Office with Bush for about 40 minutes. That was twice as long as was scheduled, a development analysts read as suggesting the two men warmed to each other. ``They were moving off the script,'' said former U.S. diplomat John J. Tkacik Jr., a China expert with the Heritage Foundation, a Washington think tank. ``It means that President Bush sort of connected with him, and I think that's a good thing.'' Bush met briefly with Hu two months ago in Beijing, when Hu attended a speech the president delivered to university students. Hu met separately on Wednesday with Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld. The two men share a complicated agenda, including Chinese concerns over U.S. plans to build a ballistic missile defense system that Beijing claims could upset the strategic balance of power in the Pacific as well as U.S. worries over China's deployment of medium-range missiles in southern areas within 90 miles of Taiwan. China regards Taiwan as a renegade province and has repeatedly declined to rule out the use of force as a way of one day reuniting the island republic with the Chinese Mainland. Such talk has met with stiff opposition from Bush, who rankled Chinese hardliners last year by vowing to do ``whatever it takes'' to defend Taiwan from any Chinese attack. Officially, U.S. policy recognizes only one China, with Beijing as its capital, and calls for a peaceful resolution to issues concerning Taiwan's future. Taiwan also featured prominently in a dinner hosted for Hu Tuesday night by Secretary of State Colin Powell. ``Vice President Hu raised Taiwan,'' at the dinner, said State Department spokesman Richard Boucher. ``The secretary stressed our continuing commitment to our 'One China' policy,'' said Boucher. ``He observed that China's actions have an effect on Taiwan, and he counseled approaches that would reduce, and not raise, tensions in the Strait,'' a reference to the 90-mile-wide body of water that divides Taiwan from mainland China. What was not on the agenda Wednesday was public access. The White House banned reporters from the brief Oval Office photo session with Bush and Hu-- the sort of event traditionally open to a small group, or pool, of reporters who are allowed to ask questions. The White House also did not hold a post-meeting briefing, the normal vehicle for communicating what went on during a meeting between Bush and a major world figure. The White House gave no reason for limiting press coverage of the meeting between Bush and the vice president of the world's most populous country. White House spokesman Ari Fleischer, though, stressed that ``technically'' Vice President Dick Cheney was Hu's host. ``We want to work with China to build a constructive and cooperative relationship,'' Fleischer told reporters. ``Leadership visits are an important part of our bilateral relationship.'' Following the meeting, Fleischer told the Associated Press that Bush ``expressed his belief that the United States and China can work well together on a wide range of issues. He noted there may be some disagreements, but he believed they could be addressed productively.'' (story can end here; optional add follows) Hu is in a peculiar, and possible precarious, position in which his every utterance and nuance is being scrutinized in Beijing. As vice president, Hu has long been regarded as the likely successor to Jiang Zemin, who is expected to step down as China's president next year. A public mistep -- particularly regarding U.S.-China relations-- could jeopardize Hu's future in an oblique succession process controlled by the inner operatives of China's Communist Party structure. And so his White House visit Wednesday seemed choreographed as much to play down the significance of his visit as to minimize the opportunity for controversy. ``Hu did not come here to blaze any new trails,'' said Tkacik. ``The whole thing from the very beginning was designed to be a get-to-know-you session.'' Bob Deans's e-mail address is bobdaens(at)coxnews.com. ENDIT Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
