Fishing the season opener at Hot Creek last weekend, every time I saw a big man fishing I thought, oh, there's Bill Sarrocco. It was eerie. You see, Bill died of complications from his cancer treatment last August. Sarrocco was 43 when he passed away. He left behind a wife and two boys and enough friends and fishing buddies to fill the church to overflowing at his memorial service. My wife says she'll have to give out my fishing gear to get half that many people at my service. Sarrocco was a big guy with a puckish sense of humor. He played college football until he blew out his knees. He transferred his passion for football to fishing. We fished together at Christmas Island in the Pacific. My best memory is of Bill grinning with a big bonefish in his hand after he'd taken a header in the water and come up gasping with the fish still on the end of his line. Bill did everything with enthusiasm, whether it was taking a son fishing, going on a club outing to fish New Mexico's San Juan River, or just kidding with friends. So it's still hard to believe he's gone. Maybe the reason I kept thinking I was seeing Bill was because we scattered some of his ashes at Hot Creek last fall near the log where he liked to sit and think up a new plan to fool the trout. One of Bill's fishing buddies had some small metal trout pins engraved with ``BS.`` It might sound corny, but the idea was to stick the pin on your fishing vest or pack so you'd always have Sarrocco along when you went fishing. I had the pin on the front of my chest pack. I'd thought about moving it somewhere else, afraid it would catch the fly line. I snagged my line during the weekend on zippers, the hemostat, and most of the other junk dangling from my pack, but never on Bill's trout pin. Saturday was a 22-fish day for me, one of my best days ever on Hot Creek. I ended up fishing there three days in a row. You've got to respect a streak. All weekend, despite the crowds, especially on Sunday, everyone seemed to be having a good time. People shared the limited stream bank space with a smile that reminded me of Bill and a ``How's it going?`` All but one stayed out of the water. Wading is strongly discouraged at Hot Creek. With the amount of pressure it gets, wading in the creek likely will damage the fishery, and it certainly puts rising fish down for other anglers. On Sunday I introduced a couple of guys to fly-fishing. They did very well, landing seven fish between them on a creek that's supposed to be a very tough place even for experienced fly fishers. Playing amateur guide with people who've never had a fly rod in their hand before can be embarrassing if the fish don't cooperate, but Bill's luck was still with us. Monday the luck held when I fished the upper part of the creek with tiny dry flies as a few snowflakes drifted down under leaden skies. In New Mexico and elsewhere they call it ``baetis weather'' as the bugs seem to like a cloudy sky and some precipitation. The baetis appeared just before I had to leave. The tipoff that a hatch was starting was when swallows darted just over the surface of the water, snatching the bugs before I even noticed they were there. The fish obliged by rising to pick off the mayflies that soon dotted the water. I managed to stick several rainbows and a brightly speckled brown trout before I had to pack up and head for home. I had a great time at the Opener. I'll be back next year, and so will Bill Sarrocco. 
