WASHINGTON-- Backers of a bill giving faith-based organizations access to federal funds rallied at Senate offices Wednesday, but John Lewis (D-Ga.), Chet Edwards (D-Texas) and other critics in the House blasted the measure, saying it allows religious discrimination. The sponsors of the Senate bill, Sens. Joe Lieberman (D-Conn.) and Rick Santorum (R-Pa.), spoke at the rally while the crowd answered with the claps and murmured ``amens.'' ``If God wants to use the government (to help us), let it be so,'' said Rev. Danny DeLeon, pastor and founder of a food bank for the poor in Santa Ana, California. ``This isn't a matter of politics. This is a matter of conscience.'' The Charity Aid, Recovery and Empowerment Act has three main goals: creating tax incentives for charitable donations, giving low-income workers incentives to save money and allowing faith-based social service groups to receive federal funds. But critics say that measure would lead to government-paid proselytizing, religious discrimination and bitter fighting between religious groups. ``Some religious groups say they need workers of their religions to work in their programs,'' said Rep. Barney Frank (D-Mass.). ``If it's federal funds, it should be open to everyone.'' Since the bill doesn't prohibit such hiring policies, it allows religious discrimination, he said. ``A job paid by government money could basically put up a sign saying `no Jews, no Catholics need apply, ''' said Edwards. ``A job ladling out soup at a soup kitchen would be decided on religious beliefs.'' Edwards added that government funding for religious groups could lead to wars over which religion gets how much. ``People are killing each other today in places where governments mixed with religion,'' said Edwards, referring to the Middle East crisis. ``Do we really want to do this?'' Lewis added in a statement, ```We have worked too long and too hard (against discrimination), and we cannot sit back and watch the work of so many people who sacrificed so much, be undone by the silence of this bill.''' ``The bill is silent on that issue,'' conceded Christian Myers, spokesman for Sen. Santorum. ``But many individuals are motivated to do good things by their faith and that's super. It's not the motivation we're interested in, it's the result.'' ``You can put lipstick on the pig and dress it up but you can't pass off (a bill) this ugly as a beauty queen,'' said Rep. Robert Scott (D-Va.), who believes senators are dodging the issue of religious discrimination. The legislation began as a presidential plan. It was passed in a narrow and controversial House vote last year only to stall in the Senate. Compromises revived the plan in February, and sponsors are now pushing to pass the bill before the congressional recess beginning Memorial Day. The bill already has strong support from the president, Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle and 19 co-sponsors (eight Democrats and nine Republicans). It now awaits approval by the finance committee. William Wan's e-mail address is wwan(at)coxnews.com. ENDIT Story Filed By Cox Newspapers 
