Taddele Gebre, a refugee from southern Sudan by way of Ethiopia, had his most recent brush with fear last month in the Moscow metro. Returning home from church, he entered a subway car and found himself facing about 20 youths, some with shaved heads. ``They were saying, `You black, go home, or you'll be a corpse here,''' recalled Gebre, a diminutive man with a degree in agriculture from a university in the southern Russian city of Krasnodar. ``I was praying. I was thinking how I could escape.'' That time, Gebre got away with one punch in the face. Other times it was much worse. During a spring holiday last year, he took a shortcut home through a nearby schoolyard. A mob of youths beat him, shouting, ``Take this for the holiday.'' In 1998, a large group of skinheads trapped him inside the subway and beat him, including with chains, for 15 minutes until finally a passer-by _ an old woman _ got up the courage to tell them to stop, he said. In all, he said, has survived seven serious racial attacks in four years. ``I am not living in this country, I am surviving,'' said Gebre, 38, who stays in Russia because he is waiting for admission to a U.N. program that might allow him to settle in America or western Europe. ``And I tell you, surviving is very hard.'' Moscow's ethnic minorities, in particular Africans, Asians and people from the Caucasus region south of Russia, report that in the past five years, racial attacks have been on the rise. The problem has slowly gained national attention _ in his April address to the nation, President Vladimir V. Putin warned against the rise of fascist groups. In January, ambassadors from 37 African countries signed a highly unusual joint appeal to the Russian foreign ministry, asking for more protection after a recent spate of attacks on their families and embassy workers. The attackers are young people, often between the ages of 14 and 20, and often those who feel cast adrift in the economic collapse and social upheaval that followed the fall of the Soviet Union. Lke skinhead groups across Europe, these teen-agers turn their anger on people of color. ``The rank and file are youth with very few opportunities,'' said Boris Makarenko, deputy director of the Center for Political Technologies, a think tank in Moscow. ``They are working-class youth with low levels of education.'' The attacks often appear to be organized _ Gebre said many of his attackers were young people dressed in black with swastika insignias on their arms _ and have been common enough to hold many of Moscow's non-white communities in fear. In April, two African-American marine security guards were attacked by skinheads on the Arbat street in downtown Moscow. Russian authorities have played down the problem, suggesting the attacks are part of the growing street crime, according to diplomats. ``The authorities are shying away from accepting the situation,'' said Nigerian Ambassador Abdullahi S. Mukhtar. ``It has gone beyond the realm of threats _ it's a reality. People are being attacked, people are being killed. We made private appeals over the last couple of years and did not go public. But when you exhaust every avenue and hit a brick wall, what can you do?'' Police often react slowly, if at all, according to 13 attack victims interviewed over a two-week period. One student from Cameroon, Ghislain Kokam, said two officers looked on while a crowd of at least 40 young people beat him for more than ten minutes on a subway platform. (BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) In another case, an attack was even captured on film. Joseph Peters, a 29-year old refugee from Sudan, was carrying a video camera when he was attacked last June. He gave his videotape of the attack to police, but after almost a year, the police said that the tape did not work, though Peters had shown it to several friends, and, he said, to three police officers sent to question him about the attack. Paul Massa Mayoni died after a group of young people beat him just outside a U.N. office in Moscow last autumn. His attackers face softened charges of hooliganism after the state prosecutor's office, referring to a forensic report, found that death was caused by Mayoni's head hitting the ground, and not by blows from the young people's sticks. Putin's speech produced some media interest in the issue, and extra police patrolled Moscow streets on the April anniversary of Hitler's birth, which has become a traditional day for racist attacks _ last year, a mob killed a Chechen boy near the Kremlin. (END OPTIONAL TRIM) The state does not keep statistics on hate crimes. The African ambassadors have counted 141 registered attacks since 2000. But society has a whole has mustered little collective revulsion, or sympathy. In part, this may be because life for many ordinary Russians is anything but easy. In addition, the war in Chechnya has engendered negative attitudes toward minorities, in particular Caucasians. The police frequently detain them and check their documents. Coming on top of centuries of repression here, the police behavior sends a signal that harassment is permissible. There are bright spots. Anur Setelakhi, a 39-year-old Madagascar national with a Russian wife and two children, said help from neighbors and quick reaction from police may have saved his life when he was beaten unconscious on March 31 by youths shouting racial slurs. Four of the attackers are under criminal investigation. ``I have some anxiety, but I am not afraid,'' said Setelakhi. ``I have Russian friends. I still go out and play with my daughter in the courtyard. It's a shame for the country. Not all Russians are like this.'' 
