An off-duty police officer was clearly driving drunk last August when his minivan struck a pregnant woman and her family in Brooklyn, but he was not responsible for their deaths, his lawyer told jurors Thursday during closing statements in his manslaughter trial. Seeming to contradict his own client, Harold Levy, the lawyer for Joseph Gray, told the jury that Gray was guilty of only one crime: ``He is guilty of driving while intoxicated.'' But driving drunk, he said, does not make Gray a killer or even responsible for the Aug. 4 crash that took the lives of Maria Herrera, who was 8 1/2 months pregnant; her son; her sister; and the baby boy who was delivered and who died after the accident. The jurors deliberated for about two hours Thursday before recessing for the night. They will resume Friday morning. Throughout the two-week trial, the defense has contended that Herrera and her family ran out in front of Gray's minivan, leaving him with no way to avoid slamming into them as they tried to cross Third Avenue at 46th Street in the Sunset Park section of Brooklyn. ``It's terrible to say to the Herrera and Pena families,'' Levy said, ``but your family, in part, were responsible for what happened.'' But the prosecution laid out a different scene, one that cast Gray, who left the force after his arrest in the accident, as an arrogant police officer who on Aug. 4 chose to drink beer all day and then drive down the very streets he had spent 14 years promising to protect. In graphic detail, Maureen McCormick, an assistant district attorney, laid out how a family's ordinary Saturday out shopping suddenly turned fatal, 188 feet from home. ``Maria's baby was stirring in her womb, waiting to take its first breath,'' McCormick said as she approached the jury box, her hands filled with five shoes collected at the scene of the crash. ``Everything was ahead of this family, including their mom's door. But they never made it because this man was out of control.'' McCormick attacked Levy's claim that his client could tolerate large amounts of alcohol and was fully capable of driving and judging the road. ``This iron man told you he could drink 13 beers and could hold his liquor,'' McCormick said. ``He wants you to believe he's that one in a million who defies the odds and the science.'' On Tuesday, Gray testified that even though he had been drinking all day, his driving and judgment had not been impaired at the time his minivan struck the family. Despite the emotions stirred by the deaths, Justice Anne G. Feldman of State Supreme Court in Brooklyn urged the jury to focus on the evidence that had been presented. That included testimony from one witness who said she had seen Gray drive through a red light, another who said he had seen the victims run into traffic, and the words of experts who had calculated that Gray drank as many as 18 beers that day and was driving 45 to 50 mph. The speed limit was 30. Gray, who is free on $250,000 bail and has pleaded not guilty to four counts of manslaughter in the second degree, could spend 15 years in prison if convicted. Under New York law, Feldman reminded jurors, the fact that a person operated a vehicle under the influence of alcohol ``is not in and of itself sufficient to be convicted of manslaughter.'' If the jury is unable to find Gray guilty of manslaughter, he could be found guilty of lesser crimes: vehicular manslaughter, which carries a sentence of seven years, or criminal negligence, with a sentence of four years. For the manslaughter charge, however, Feldman said the prosecution must prove that Gray was reckless behind the wheel and ignored a potential risk to others, for example, by speeding or running a red light. 
