Although the phrase ``shiny brand-new Pocket PC hand-held'' may cause the casual technology watcher to think ``more than $500,'' prices for the devices have been creeping down. The new Toshiba e310 even comes in below the $400 mark. The Toshiba Pocket PC e310 comes with a 3.5-inch color screen that can display more than 65,000 colors at a resolution of 240 by 320 pixels, and a choice of five levels of brightness can help preserve battery life. The device has 32 megabytes of random access memory and 32 megabytes of read-only program memory. A Secure Digital card slot can accommodate more memory for storing digital image and audio files or adding accessories like a Bluetooth wireless card. The e310 has a built-in speaker and microphone and runs the Microsoft Pocket PC 2002 operating system, which includes the usual assortment of portable programs like Pocket Word, Pocket Excel and Windows Media Player 8. A docking cradle and USB cable are included for synchronizing the e310 with a full-size computer. The e310 has a list price of $399 and is available at computer stores and online at www.shoptoshiba.com. ONLINE The Beat Movement as Lived by Ginsberg Allen Ginsberg was not only the Beat movement's second-best-known luminary after Jack Kerouac; he was also its most assiduous visual chronicler. Ginsberg's black-and-white photographs of Kerouac, Gregory Corso and others are definitive snapshots of an era. Many photographs _ as well as handwritten manuscript pages of Ginsberg's poetry, audio clips, selected artwork, and video clips _ are featured at www.allenginsberg.org, a Web site founded in March that is devoted to the life of the poet, who died in 1997 at age 70. A work in progress, the site includes a Flash-enabled timeline that allows the user to click and drag on a picture of Ginsberg and take a guided chronological tour of his life. This site, which is financed by the Allen Ginsberg Trust of New York, has ambitions of becoming a definitive research archive, but some sections are meatier than others. The Ephemera section, for example, includes only seven items; the Manuscripts section, four. The Allen Ginsberg Trust hopes to expand the library, but for now, the site is best viewed as an entertaining multimedia journey though Ginsberg's oeuvre. TELEVISION A Cheaper Converter Box for Digital Broadcasts Television broadcasters, TV manufacturers and programmers continue to blame one another for the slow acceptance of digital television. One obstacle has been the price of equipment. The converter boxes needed to receive digital broadcasts cost at least $550, more than most people spend on a television. WOW Digital TV, a company in Salt Lake City that makes receivers, hopes to break the logjam later this year by selling a converter box for $199. The converters can be used with HDTV-ready sets or with an analog television to watch a standard-definition digital feed. The company expects to break even at best with the converters. To make money, it will help television stations provide enhanced services _ some supported by advertising and some offered for a fee _ to lure viewers to digital television. In addition to standard programming, stations working with WOW Digital TV will be able to broadcast enhanced weather information, Web-like banner ads and movies on demand as well as sporting events from multiple angles, thanks to the additional channel capacity available when a program is broadcast in a compressed digital format. The WOW Digital TV unit picks up over-the-air digital broadcasts only. Consumers who receive regular or HDTV programming via cable or satellite will still need their existing converter boxes. The company will begin shipping the WOW Digital TV units this fall in the Salt Lake City area and then in other markets in 2003. SOFTWARE Making Apple's MP3 Player Compatible With the Masses With hundreds of millions more Windows PCs than Macs in the world, you may wonder why Apple Computer does not offer a version of its iPod portable MP3 player that is compatible with the majority. While Apple will not say whether it will ultimately offer software that would make the iPod play nice with Windows, two other companies have already made the leap. A preview of XPlay, a program by Mediafour that enables the iPod to work with Windows, is available for free downloading at www .mediafour.com. It will cost $29.95 when it is officially released for downloading on May 20 and is to arrive in stores in June. The other program, EphPod, developed by Joe Masters, a student at Williams College, is free for downloading at www.ephpod.com. . EphPod requires a second utility program like the MacOpener by DataViz ($49.95 at www.dataviz.com) to make the iPod's built-in hard disk appear in Windows Explorer so that music can be copied back and forth. Mediafour's MacDrive software ($49.95), which is at the core of XPlay, also works with EphPod. Users of Windows-based computers with a FireWire port on the desktop or notebook PC can connect it to the iPod. FireWire is standard on new Macs but is far less common on Windows computers. PC's without FireWire will need a plug-in expansion card, available from peripherals makers for about $60 to $100. ACCESSORIES Surfing From Site to Site With the Click of a Remote When channel surfing begat Web surfing, the remote control did not stray far from the television. But a new wireless device could make switching from CNN.com to ESPN.com as easy as switching from CNN to ESPN. The device, the Remote Wonder from ATI Technologies, can control PC functions by sending radio signals to a USB receiver up to 100 feet away. The unit, which costs $50, works as a remote for computers equipped with TV tuner cards made by ATI. It has the standard features of a remote, including volume controls, a numeric keypad and a red power button. Without a TV card, users can still use the remote to watch a DVD or cycle through MP3 files. Since the Remote Wonder uses radio frequency to send its signal, the controller is not bound by the line-of-sight rule that limits regular infrared remotes. Users can pipe an audio-video signal from the CPU in the den to the television in the living room and still control playback from the recliner. If movies and songs must give way to other applications, the Remote Wonder can be programmed for additional software. It can also emulate a mouse, controlling pointers and cursors with its thumb-pad and L and R buttons. Those who use their PCs only to watch films or surf the Web may wonder if a wireless controller makes the keyboard and mouse obsolete _ that is, until they lose the remote. 
