If the owners and trainer of Windward Passage were angry to be knocked out of the Kentucky Derby field by the unexpected entry of Danthebluegrassman, they also were trying not to show it Thursday. ``It's not a good thing. But I don't know who we can be mad at,'' said Jeff Siegel, vice president of Team Valor, which owns Windward Passage. ``We're disappointed, sure.'' Siegel said that in addition to himself and Team Valor president Barry Irwin, the Windward Passage ownership includes ``eight or nine'' people. After Mayakovsky's handlers announced Wednesday morning that the colt would not be entered in the Derby, Team Valor believed Windward Passage would make the 20-horse field because he moved from 21st to 20th in graded-stakes earnings. But 15 minutes before Wednesday evening's televised post-position selections, it was revealed that trainer Bob Baffert and owner Mike Pegram had entered the long shot Danthebluegrassman, whose higher earnings would knock Windward Passage out of the top 20. Baffert said he and Pegram -- who together won the Derby with Real Quiet in 1998 -- made the decision Wednesday morning to enter the colt who finished a troubled eighth in the Santa Anita Derby. Baffert said he hadn't revealed that he was thinking of running Danthebluegrassman because ``I didn't want to be bugged'' by reporters questioning the horse's credentials. The move was the subject of much muttering among disinterested parties Thursday. ``Oh, well, Bob loves the publicity, doesn't he?'' said Murray Johnson, trainer of Derby contender Perfect Drift. ``Who took the longest to pick their post position? Maybe Bob should get with his director friends and get in the movies.'' Baffert, who already had War Emblem in the race, said he had learned by watching rival D. Wayne Lukas that trainers can win the Derby with the less-regarded of multiple entries. ``It probably could have been handled a little bit better,'' said Lukas, the four-time Derby-winning trainer who has Proud Citizen this year. ``But it's not for me to judge.'' Windward Passage trainer Steve Asmussen said he was less upset with Baffert and Pegram than with Churchill Downs management, which cited Kentucky racing regulations as a reason for failing to tip off Team Valor that it was in for disappointment. Siegel said from his Duarte home: ``It was a lot of hassle that could have been avoided.'' Siegel said he didn't believe Baffert and Pegram were acting on any personal grudge against the Windward Passage owners. ``I just want to take the high road,'' Siegel said. Team Valor got a measure of revenge in Thursday's featured La Troienne Stakes at Churchill when its Cashier's Dream defeated a Baffert-trained filly named Shameful in a photo finish. --The day before: The Kentucky Oaks, the 3-year-old fillies race that always draws the biggest crowd of the year for an American thoroughbred event other than the Derby, is headed today by Take Charge Lady, winner of three consecutive stakes by a combined 17} lengths. Take Charge Lady is trained by Ken McPeek, who along with Baffert (Habibti), Bobby Frankel (You) and Saeed bin Suroor (Imperial Gesture) has a chance to be the first trainer in 50 years to capture an Oaks-Derby double. Southern California is represented in the 1[-mile race by You, Habibti, Ile de France and Farda Amiga, the 1-2-3-4 finishers in the Santa Anita Derby. The race lost some of its appeal when trainer Neil Drysdale scratched one of the leading contenders, Bella Bellucci. Drysdale said nothing is seriously wrong with his filly, which ``just wasn't acting right,'' the trainer said. Oaks day drew 102,904 fans to Churchill Downs in 2001, when Frankel-trained Flute won the race. An Oaks-record 106,156 attended in 2000. --At Hollywood Park: The Inglewood track's schedule today and Saturday will accommodate simulcast wagering on the entire Churchill Downs cards. Hollywood Park will open its gates at 8 a.m., begin taking Churchill simulcasts at 8:30 and run its own races starting at 1:15 p.m. each day. This is the only Friday of the spring-summer season that is not scheduled for a 7:05 p.m. first post. Oaks post time is 2:43 p.m. PDT, Derby post time Saturday 3:04 p.m. Hollywood Park will take advance wagers on the Derby today. --Weather report: Morning rain showers and a high temperature of 74 degrees are in the Louisville forecast for Saturday. Today is expected to be cloudy with a high of 66. Heavy rain Thursday morning turned the Churchill track ``sloppy'' for the afternoon's races. 
