During an otherwise routine breakfast, my husband suddenly looked over the top of Sports and said, ``Have you seen my green shoes?'' ``No,'' I said. ``I knew it,'' he said. ``You threw them out.'' I'm bad enough at bluffing to avoid poker. Still, when faced with a potentially treacherous situation, I like to think I display a certain instinctive wiliness. ``I don't know what you are talking about,'' I said. ``I loved those loafers,'' he said bitterly. It turned out that he had vivid memories of the happy day nearly 10 years ago when he bought those loafers on sale. They were his first pair of hand-made nubuck Mephistos _ which, he added, were a French brand highly prized among the comfy-footwear cognoscenti _ and that some years later he had even sent them back to the manufacturer to be resoled. There was a lot more to this heart-rending story, including a plot turn involving shoe trees, but I grasped only the main point: I had to replace those stinky, yucky old loafers with the scuffed-up toes _ and fast. ``Maybe they're upstairs,'' I said. Unfortunately the garbage truck had been by the previous day. So I rushed to my computer to see if an identical, new pair could be obtained online from any of the more than 650 shoe sellers in the United States who stock the pricey ($115 to $400 for men's styles, who knew?) Mephisto brand, whose motto is ``the world's finest walking shoe.'' A great many of those 650 retailers had Internet sites, giving me access to far more Mephistos than were available in town. Even better, the sites had thumbnail images of many, many dozens of styles, from the laced Dribbler (at the company's suggested price of $280) to the buckled Zeus ($145). High fashion has never been the company's goal, which was perhaps part of the reason the green loafers ``disappeared'' in the first place. During the next tense hour, as I visited Web sites like happyfeet.com, www.mephistogreatlakes.com and mephistoseattle.com, I learned quite a bit about Mephisto, a French company founded in 1965 with a single style called the Rainbow that was known for its easy-tug ``speed laces.'' Among the 150 styles currently sold in the United States, I was shocked to see a different pair of stinky old shoes my husband loves', a model called the Damien, a perforated green nubuck loafer. (My husband does, however, have really good taste in eyeglasses.) In fact, the online description of the Damien as ``taupe'' offered a valuable clue: perhaps the green loafers I sought were also considered light brown by the manufacturer. I even checked the closeout sections on sites like www.mepcomfort.com, where I could have snagged a pair of the two-eyelet moccasins known as Peppo, marked down from $305 to $199.99. But the loafers I sought were nowhere. Had they suffered the same fate as an overturned dictator whose image gets air-brushed from old official photos? Then I stumbled across www.mephistobocaraton.com, a site that purported to exhibit the inventory of three Florida retailers. There, in a little window on the home page that displayed rotating images of various Mephisto shoes, I saw the loafers. They definitely looked green. Phone numbers for two of the stores listed on the site didn't work, but a third belonged to the Walking Shoe Store in Jupiter, Fla., where the proprieter said the Internet site was no longer updated or taking orders. The Walking Shoe Store did not carry the loafers. I had two choices. I could be mature and admit to throwing away the scuffed, stained, misshapen and generally unpleasant old shoes. My other choice was to take drastic action. So I phoned Mephisto's American headquarters in Franklin, Tenn., where a company spokeswoman offered to help me identify the missing loafers _ and to try to locate them among retailers. She said my request to replace an old pair was not uncommon; customers often still wear years-old Mephistos and the company is happy to help them hunt down replacements, if possible. After she logged on and scrutinized the tiny rotating loafer image online, she sent me an e-mail message: ``We believe we have it narrowed down to the Reynold, the Caleb or the Colby _ we are checking to see if France still makes any of these styles.'' By the next day, when I spoke to Louis Dubrow, the company's president for the United States, one mystery was solved: the ``missing'' loafers had been identified as a pair of taupe Reynolds. Many discontinued styles can still be tracked down _ a company representative tried to find my husband's old resole order and even checked inventory in a big store near the company's French factory. But the Reynold had been gone so long that the situation seemed hopeless. ``I could be in big trouble,'' I fretted. ``It sounds like you did throw them out,'' Dubrow said. ``I didn't say that,'' I said. My last hope will be an forthcoming meeting of Mephisto retailers, scheduled for May, where a longtime company sales person has volunteered to ask around. ``Can you stall three weeks?'' Dubrow said. I sighed theatrically. He took pity on me. ``Do you know about the Mallory? It's a similar loafer in leather.'' But I needed nubuck. ``There's the Damien, but if you want them, you'd better get them fast,'' Dubrow said. ``We're discontinuing them.'' So I rushed over to Happyfeet.com and ordered a pair of perforated nubuck loafers, wincing at the price, $245. But at least ground shipping on orders of more than $100 was free. I only hope they arrive before my husband notices his stinky, yucky old Damiens are also missing. E-mail: Slatalla(at)nytimes.com 
