After years of disputes over security and national pride, Germany and the United States signed an agreement on Thursday to build a new American Embassy on the prominent empty lot where the old one stood before World War II. The site is next to the city's symbol, the Brandenburg Gate, and the spot where Berlin's Holocaust memorial is to be built. When both are completed, the historical center of reunited Berlin will look less like the outskirts of a suburb, one reason that the Germans pressed so hard for this agreement. The difficulty has been security requirements imposed by Congress after the bombings of the U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998. The city objected to a 30-meter security zone, about 33 yards, between the building and the street, arguing that it would break up the historic architecture of Berlin and require an important road to be closed. But the countries worked out a compromise endorsed by Secretary of State Colin Powell that will move the road and narrow the security zone by 5 yards, making up for the smaller zone with a stronger building design. Berlin agreed to move the road about 9 yards _ Washington will pay the cost _ and officials with the Holocaust memorial agreed to cede a small part of its site to allow for the road. ``It is a day that some questioned might never come, but here it is,'' said the American ambassador, Daniel Coats, after signing the agreement with Mayor Klaus Wowereit. Wowereit's predecessor, Eberhard Diepgen, had been upset by the American demands for special security treatment not sought by other countries that were building embassies in the same area, including Britain and France. The Russian Embassy is also nearby, as well as significant German government buildings, including the Parliament. Powell supported the compromise from the beginning of his tenure, American officials say. In Senate testimony in March he said that the site, surrounded by official buildings, was ``perhaps the safest square anywhere in Christendom,'' and that any risk was outweighed by ``the absolute symbolic necessity for the United States to be there in the heart of Berlin, in the heart of Germany, with our friends and allies and with the German government.'' 
